
                               1 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               December 28, 2008

7 days: The Observer profile: Rowan Atkinson: Fagin goes forth in the West End:
The great comic actor, best known for his Blackadder and Mr Bean, is set to take
on the role of the miserly criminal mastermind in Oliver! But off-stage, he
shuns publicity and is happiest at home with his vintage cars

BYLINE: David Smith

SECTION: OBSERVER 7DAYS PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1492 words


A week in the life of Rowan Atkinson. On Christmas Day, he and his wife Sunetra
slipped quietly into a school in Kennington, south London, to bring some cheer
to 2,000 troubled children brought together by the charity Kids Company. The
comedian's eyes welled up with tears, said one witness.

That night, Atkinson was interviewed for a BBC1 documentary celebrating 25 years
of the comedy classic Blackadder . Looking ill at ease in the role of Rowan
Atkinson, he made the surprising disclosure that there was at least one episode
of Blackadder Goes Forth he had never seen until he happened to find it on his
in-flight entertainment. "I'm not a great laugher, sadly," he admitted, "but I
might have sniggered at it, which was my way of saying that was very funny."

And yesterday he was due on stage for two preview performances of the musical
Oliver! , produced by Cameron Mackintosh at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane. It is
testimony to his status as king of British comedy that, with little pedigree of
stage acting and less singing, he is set to become the biggest attraction in
London's West End as the Jewish miser, Fagin. Unlike Alec Guinness in the
controversial 1948 screen adaptation of Oliver Twist , Atkinson does not wear a
prosthetic nose.

"I think the thing people will be most surprised about is the complexity of the
character," Rupert Goold, the production's director, told the Observer . "I'm
sure they expect him to be funny, but he's delivered something that is really
complex. Like Shylock, it's one of those parts that you'd have a problematic
relationship with because it's been used as a rod to beat Jewish identity with.
You can't shy away from that. In the last preview I saw, Rowan had lost a little
bit of his Jewish accent and I wanted that to come back because I don't think it
is an unsympathetic portrayal."

Seldom has a performer been as inscrutably determined as Atkinson to let his
work do the talking. An appearance on ITV1's This Morning sofa became tortuous
whenever the actor was asked a remotely personal question. He once refused to
tell a journalist how many children he has. On another occasion, the Observer
approached him at a party with an innocuous question about Blackadder ; after an
excruciatingly long pause, he replied: "No comment." Even on Blue Peter , he
appeared as Mr Bean rather than himself. His private persona, says Goold, is
sometimes "like a ghost".

Another Blackadder documentary, on the G.O.L.D. channel earlier this year,
featured interviews with its writers Richard Curtis and Ben Elton and cast
members including Robinson, Stephen Fry, Hugh Laurie, Tim McInnerny and Miranda
Richardson. All the old gang, in fact, except Atkinson.

Why the reticence? The evidence suggests that there is no great enigma, no great
cliche about inner turmoil and the tears of a clown. Atkinson, who turns 54 next
week, simply seems to lack the showbiz gene. He has a private hinterland of fast
cars and family and the key to his brilliance may be that he sees it as nothing
more and nothing less than a job. Goold added: "He's got something that's really
important in comedy, which is taste, partly because he's a very self-contained
private man, so you don't feel he's somebody who's desperate for a laugh.

'Some comedians are so eager to have you love them that they'll push that to the
nth degree, whatever that takes, whereas with Rowan you feel he enjoys it like
he enjoys the purr of the engine of one of his beloved cars. It's a personal
experience for him and that means he's indifferent to vulgarity and cheap
laughs."

T ony Robinson, whose Baldrick tormented Blackadder with every "cunning plan",
echoes the sentiment. "He's one of the few mega performers who genuinely has a
full and fulfilling life away from showbusiness," he said last week. "In my
experience, I can't tell you how rare that is. He has a beautiful wife and
family and good on him. Yet he remains for me the consummate comedy performer of
his generation."

Robinson added: "He's a very shy man, so it's not like the first time that you
meet someone such as Rik Mayall or Mel Smith where you've overwhelmed by the
force of their personality. When he's not working, you are unlikely to realise
that he's in the room, but as soon as he starts, all attention focuses on him,
partly because of this extraordinary supreme talent that he's got."

Performing was not in his blood. Atkinson was the third son growing up on a
400-acre farm and attended Durham's Chorister School aged 11, where he was
teased by fellow pupils who thought he looked like an alien. Two years above him
was Tony Blair, described by the school's headmaster as "outgoing" compared with
Atkinson, who was "shy with a slight stutter". He went to Newcastle University
and studied engineering, before arriving at Queen's College, Oxford, for an MSc
in engineering science.

When he turned up at the Oxford sketch writing group, he reminded fellow student
Richard Curtis of a cushion: sitting on a chair and saying nothing. Curtis
recalled: "I thought he was a stuffed toy because he didn't say anything for the
first three meetings - just a curiously shaped object in the corner. Then just
when we were trying to decide what the material should be, and we'd all been
handing in sketches for months, Rowan actually stood up and did two absolutely
astonishing sketches."

Atkinson dazzled at the Edinburgh Festival and toured with Angus Deayton as his
straight man. At Amnesty International's benefit, The Secret Policeman's Ball ,
in 1979 he performed a hilarious sketch as a headmaster addressing a room of
schoolboys. He then joined Mel Smith, Griff Rhys Jones and Pamela Stephenson in
the vanguard of alternative comedy, the sketch series Not the Nine O'Clock News
. Two years later, he became the youngest performer to have a one-man show in
the West End.

Then came four series as Edmund Blackadder in the sprawling comical chronicle of
English history now regarded as a gold-plated classic, ranking with or even
surpassing Dad's Army and Fawlty Towers . By the final series, set in the First
World War trenches, Atkinson found in the character a cynical antihero worthy of
Catch-22 's Yossarian. The climax touched greatness with Blackadder pretending
to be mad in a failed bid to get out of the maddest situation in history.

"I just remember feeling the impending doom over my character," Atkinson said.
"I remember feeling this strange knot in the pit of my stomach. It was the first
time as an actor that I had felt the predicament of my character. I was going to
die at the end of the week."

I t has since been observed that the world is divided into two irreconcilable
schools: fans of Blackadder and fans of Atkinson's next manifestation, Mr Bean .
The former, which started on BBC2, was Oxbridge satire with clever wordplay in
the tradition of Peter Cook and Dudley Moore and Monty Python . The latter, on
ITV, was physical humour with minimal dialogue in the tradition of Benny Hill.
It has shown a similar ability to cross cultural boundaries, gaining audiences
in a hundred countries. The 1997 film version, Bean , took £ 152m to become the
most lucrative British film of all time and was followed by Mr Bean's Holiday
last year.

Atkinson, whose Eurosceptic brother Rodney is a former UK Independence Party
candidate, made a rare foray into politics when he campaigned successfully
against the government's proposals to outlaw "incitement to religious hatred",
arguing that they would in effect criminalise the telling of Catholic, Jewish or
Muslim jokes. He has had a mild flop, with the BBC TV series The Thin Blue Line
and made several Hollywood appearances, although he once opined that the only
film he was really proud of being in was Four Weddings and a Funeral

His 15 per cent stake in the film and TV company Tiger Aspect has helped
generated a personal fortune estimated at anywhere from £ 65m to £ 100m. On a
typical day, he is likely to be relaxing at his Chelsea townhouse or driving
go-karts round the tennis court of his country pile, a former rectory in the
Oxfordshire village of Waterperry.

The actor's great extravagance is collecting vintage cars and driving them at
events such as the Goodwood Festival of Speed. John Lloyd, his long-time
producer, once summed Atkinson up thus: "He is certainly not a workaholic. He
once said to me that he wasn't bothered about going into showbusiness, but it
was the only way he could find of affording the cars he wanted. I think that's
why, in interviews, he doesn't think his private life is anybody's business.
There's no article to be written airing his dirty laundry. He's just a blameless
family guy."

So don't expect Atkinson to treat the first-night reviews of Oliver! , including
his ability to sing "You've got to pick-a-pocket or two, boys" eight times a
week, as a matter of life and death. But equally, expect something special from
a man who, like the best of wits, has nothing to declare but his genius.


LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           December 27, 2008 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

2,000 MIGRANTS HEAD FOR BRITAIN

BYLINE: by TOM HUTCHISON

SECTION: NEWS TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 2

LENGTH: 216 words


BRITAIN was last night warned to brace itself for a new wave of illegal
immigrants.

More than 2,000 migrants are in the Calais area of France determined to claim
asylum in the UK.

Only a change in Britain's "open door" immigration and asylum policies will stop
more coming across The English Channel, French charity C'Surs warned yesterday.

Its spokesman Father Jean-Pierre Boutoille said: "There are more than 2,000
migrants in the Calais region right now and they are all determined to get to
Britain. They will keep coming for as long as Britain maintains its strange
asylum and immigration systems.

"You must expect them soon in Britain, because none of them want to stay in
France - their dream is to start a new life in Britain."

And he warned: "Many are ill with TB and scabies."

Last night Immigration Minister Phil Woolas was urged to make good his promise
to crack down on illegal migrants.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "We will now see if Phil Woolas
is serious about getting tough."

Shadow Immigration Minister Damian Green added: "This is why it is essential
that we have a dedicated UK border police to secure our borders."

But a UK Border Agency spokesman said: "We already have one of the toughest
borders in the world and we are determined to ensure it stays that way."

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GET TOUGHER: Woolas
ACTION CALL: Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           December 23, 2008 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

PAEDO ROYAL BUTLER TOOK BOY VICTIM TO TEA WITH QUEEN MUM

BYLINE: by JOHN MAHONEY

SECTION: NEWS TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 23

LENGTH: 413 words


A PAEDOPHILE royal butler has been jailed for a minimum of six years after he
admitted a string of sex offences against young boys.

Paul Kidd, 55, even took one of his victims for tea with the Queen Mother.

The offences were committed between 1974 and 1977, 1981 and 1983 - when he was
senior footman to the Queen Mother - and 2005 to 2008.

The former candidate for the UK Independence Party was caught after one of his
three victims read a newspaper interview which he gave on the 10th anniversary
of the Princess Diana's death.

Kidd, who also worked as a royal butler to The Queen from 1977 to 1979, started
grooming one of the boys when he was 12.

The victim, now in his 40s, was indecently assaulted at the butler's home in the
early 1980s.

Kidd had even taken him to meet the Queen Mother at a Christmas party at
Clarence House where he introduced him as a "friend".

The next victim was lured by Kidd's enthusiasm for CB radio as they initially
chatted over the airwaves, Manchester's Minshull Street Crown Court heard.

Kidd was soon abusing the youngster at his then home in 1981 in
Ashton-under-Lyne, Gtr Manchester. He impressed the then 14-yearold with
anecdotes about his career in the royal service. His most recent victim was the
son of a family friend who he enticed with the promise of getting autographs of
Manchester United players.

On Kidd's computer, police found 18,019 images of unknown children and a video
of him abusing another youngster in 2006. Many of the images were encrypted in
computer files with the password "Pickles" - thought to be a reference to a
royal corgi.

Kidd, of Stalybridge, admitted nine counts of indecent assault, six counts of
sexual activity with a child and one count of causing or inciting a child to
engage in sexual activity.

He also admitted 11 counts of making indecent images of a child and two counts
of possessing indecent images of children.

He also introduced his most recent victim to pal David Hobday, who also abused
the youngster. Hobday, 57, of Dukinfield, was jailed for three years after he
admitted six counts of sexual activity with a child and one of possessing an
indecent image of a child.

Judge Mushtaq Khokhar told Kidd:

"You were someone who had influenced your victims to such an extent they were
under your spell." He recommended he serves at least six years in prison.

Saul Brody, defending, said:

"There has been no issue to the quality of service he provided to members of the
royal household while in their employ."

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ROYAL GROOM: Paul Kidd during the time he worked for the Royal Family
and, below, a more recent picture of the sex beast
BOSS: Paul Kidd was a footman for the Queen Mother

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          December 23, 2008 Wednesday

National: Ex-royal butler jailed for sex abuse of boys: Kidd to serve at least
six years for string of offences: One victim was taken to tea with the Queen
Mother

BYLINE: Damien Pearse

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 527 words


A royal butler has been jailed for a minimum of six years after he admitted a
string of sexual offences against young boys. Paul Kidd, 55, was described by
police as a "brilliant groomer" and took one of his victims to tea with the
Queen Mother.

He regaled the boys with stories of his work in the royal household, saying that
the Queen enjoyed scrambled eggs on toast, a court was told. He worked as a
royal butler to the Queen from 1977 to 1979 and was senior footman to the Queen
Mother from 1979 to 1984.

Judge Mushtaq Khokhar told him at Manchester crown court: "You were someone who
had influenced your victims to such an extent they were under your spell. They
would do anything you asked them to do. I regard you as someone who is dangerous
and presents a risk to all the young people you may come across."

He gave Kidd, from Stalybridge, Greater Manchester, an indeterminate sentence
and recommended that he remain in prison for at least six years for public
protection until he could be considered for parole.

The former candidate for the UK Independence party was caught after one of his
three victims read a newspaper interview that he gave on the 10th anniversary of
the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, and contacted the police. The victim, now
in his 40s, said he had been indecently assaulted by Kidd at the butler's home
in the early 1980s, when he was 13.

An investigation was launched and evidence of further abuse was uncovered during
a search of Kidd's home in Castlehall View. Among items found on his computer
were 18,019 images of unknown children and a video recording of him abusing
another youngster as recently as 2006.

Many of the images recovered were encrypted in computer files with the password
"Pickles" - thought to be a reference to a royal corgi.

Kidd started grooming another of the boys, aged 14, on CB radio airwaves, the
court heard. The boy told the court: "I remember one story he told about
dredging a lake at Balmoral with another servant. Two ladies were walking past
and he went to jump out at them and scare them. When he did, one of the women
turned round and told him to go inside because he would catch his death out
here. It was the Queen and the Queen Mother.

"He also told me that the Queen used to like scrambled egg on toast."

Kidd's third victim, who was treated to the royal tea party, came forward after
reading publicity on the case when Kidd was charged.

Kidd pleaded guilty to nine counts of indecent assault, six counts of sexual
activity with a child and one count of causing or inciting a child to engage in
sexual activity. He also admitted 11 counts of making indecent images of a child
and two counts of possessing indecent images of children. The offences were
committed between 1974 and 1977, 1981 and 1983 - when he was employed by the
Queen Mother - and 2005 to 2008.

Kidd introduced his most recent victim to a friend, David Hobday, who also
abused the youngster. Hobday, 57, of Dukinfield, Tameside, Greater Manchester,
was jailed for three years after he pleaded guilty to six counts of sexual
activity with a child and one count of possessing an indecent image of a child,
namely a video recording.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           December 23, 2008 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2

JAILED: THE QUEEN'S PAEDOPHILE BUTLER

BYLINE: ALEX WEST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 302 words


A PAEDOPHILE royal butler who took one of his victims for tea with the Queen
Mother was jailed yesterday for at least six years.

Pervert Paul Kidd, 55 - described by cops as "a brilliant groomer" of boys -
used his status to impress his victims.

He started to snare one youngster when he was a 12-year-old patient at a
hospital where Kidd had also worked as a trainee nurse. Another was 14 when he
first spoke to Kidd on citizens' band radio.

Judge Mushtaq Khokhar said: "You influenced your victims to such an extent they
were under your spell. They would do anything you asked them to do. You are
dangerous and a risk to young people." Kidd was senior footman to the Queen
Mother from 1979 to 1984 and previously worked as a royal butler to The Queen
from 1977.

The paedophile was caught after one of three children he abused read a newspaper
interview he gave on the tenth anniversary of Princess Diana's death.

The victim, now in his 40s, reported that he had been indecently assaulted by
Kidd at the butler's home when he was 13.

On Kidd's computer cops found 18,019 images of unknown children and a video of
him abusing another youngster.

One of his computer passwords was "Pickles" - thought to be a reference to a
royal corgi.

His third victim, who was treated to the royal tea party, also came forward
after reading about the case, Manchester Minshull Street Crown Court was told.

Kidd - a former candidate for the UK Independence Party - admitted indecent
assault, sexual activity with a child, causing a child to engage in sex and
making and possessing indecent images of children.

He introduced his most recent victim to David Hobday, 57, who also abused the
youngster.

Hobday was jailed for three years for sexual activity with a child and
possessing an indecent video of a child.

a.west@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Kidd ... 'a brilliant groomer'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2008 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               December 22, 2008

Former royal butler jailed for child abuse

LENGTH: 319 words



HIGHLIGHT: Paedophile who took victim to tea with the Queen Mother pleads guilty
to sex offences


A paedophile royal butler who took one of his victims to tea with the Queen
Mother was jailed today for a minimum of six years.

Described by police as a "brilliant groomer", Paul Kidd, 55, of Stalybridge,
Greater Manchester, had pleaded guilty to a string of sex offences at an earlier
hearing.

Kidd started grooming one of his victims when the boy was 12 and a patient on a
hospital ward where he then worked as a trainee nurse.

Another victim was 14 when he first spoke to Kidd on CB radio, Manchester
Minshull Street crown court heard.

The defendant was senior footman to the Queen Mother from 1979 to 1984 and
previously worked as a royal butler to the Queen from 1977.

The former candidate for the UK Independence party was caught after one of his
three abuse victims read a newspaper interview he gave on the 10th anniversary
of the death of Diana, Princess of Wales.

His boasts about his royal connections, coming from a man who had his own
website, http://www.royalbutler.co.uk, led the complainant to contact police.

The victim, now in his 40s, reported he had been indecently assaulted by Kidd at
the butler's home in the early 1980s when he was 13.

The police uncovered evidence of further abuse during a search of Kidd's home.

Among items found on his computer were 18,019 images of unknown children and a
video recording of him abusing another child in 2006.

Many of the images were encrypted in computer files with the password Pickles -
thought to be a reference to a royal corgi.

His third victim, who was treated to the royal tea party, came forward after
reading publicity on the case when Kidd was charged by police.

Kidd pleaded guilty to nine counts of indecent assault, six counts of sexual
activity with a child and one count of causing or inciting a child to engage in
sexual activity.

He also admitted 11 counts of making indecent images of a child and two counts
of possessing indecent images of children.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               7 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            December 19, 2008 Friday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 682 words


We must shop for victory Gordon says, and this is the time to make that a
reality. Leading by example, the PM is doing his bit. And so it was that a
minion pitched up on Wednesday at the Whisky Exchange, a spirits retailer in
south London, with an order for 12 bottles of Glenrothes, a fine malt. Thank you
gifts for those involved in Labour's byelection victory in the town of the same
name last month. The party held the seat against the odds and Gordon hasn't
looked back. To the victor, the spoils. To his helpers, their rewards.

So much to look forward to this Christmas and for 78-year-old peace campaigner
Pat Arrowsmith, there is the prospect of extra visitors - watch out, here come
the bailiffs. The co-founder of CND rings to say they could descend at any
minute because of unpaid court costs of £475 arising from her arrest during a
blockade of Aldermaston earlier this year. With attempts to charm the money out
of her having failed, debt collectors think a locksmith might fare better. The
denouement could occur at any point over the next 10 days. "I am not prepared to
co-operate and, frankly, there is little for them to take, save for the family
silver," she says. And if she ends up in jail, what of it? She has been there 11
times before. "I was in prison over Christmas back in 1968," recalls Pat. "It
was worth it."

What's this? A Christmas card from Michael Winner, brandishing plastic fish and
saying, "Calm down dear." Going once, going twice . . .

Though Hazel Blears is MP for Salford, we count her as an honorary Londoner. She
lives in the capital, in the week at least. She works here, as you know. Perhaps
this was why she damned Boris Johnson last September. "The last thing a modern,
diverse, international-class capital like London needs is a fogeyish, bigoted
and upper-class twit for its mayor," she said. She could have said it again when
the two of them dined together at a fashionable eaterie in north London on
Wednesday night, but instead they had a high old time and she brought him a
present, wooden building blocks comprising the London skyline. Oh well. Now is
now. Then was then.

Because it is always good to visit friends in the run-up to Christmas, time to
drop in once more on the Swinton Circle, the strange bunch who straddle the
hinterland between the far right and the Tory right. Always good to see them.
They have been somewhat preoccupied of late trying to purge themselves of BNP
types because they know that Cameroons have no truck with extremists, but the
process has been difficult. Alan Harvey, the former chairman and one-time NF
activist, has fallen out with almost everyone and now leads what he calls the
"official" Swinton Circle. He and the other faction share a common loathing.
That's about all. Still, life goes on and we see that in February, the
Swintonites he left behind will have as their guest speaker Alistair
McConnachie, who, in 2001, triggered resignations from Ukip by writing to the
Scottish press saying the Pope had been duped over the Holocaust. Clarifying his
position, he later wrote, "I don't accept that gas chambers were used to execute
Jews for the simple fact there is no direct physical evidence to show that such
gas chambers ever existed." No one can guarantee similar controversy when he
speaks, but we guess he won't be dull.

Finally, there is lively debate in Gloucestershire occasioned by a car thief who
was chased at twice the speed limit through the streets of Cheltenham, an
excitement curtailed only when he crashed and ran away, leaving his injured wife
behind. He was given a suspended sentence because he had the wife and six kids
to support. Many see this as lax sentencing. "Obviously the judge feels the
children need a roll model, because without crime the legal profession have no
raisin deterer," complained one, "union man", to the website
ThisIsGloucestershire. He speaks for many on this, and over the year, our raisin
deterer, has been to speak up for you dear reader. Once the coming festivities
are over, we shall do so again, beginning 6 January. Can't wait.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               December 18, 2008

Nick Clegg has used first year to reposition Lib Dems in refreshing ways

LENGTH: 1185 words


If experimental political scientists are one day exposed as having been working
in the office of the Liberal Democrat leader, Nick Clegg, that would seem to
make sense.

At many turns over his first 12 months as leader of the UK's third party, Clegg
has done the anti-political thing. He gave a loud (and unflattering) appraisal
of the merits of his own shadow cabinet while travelling in public, he actually
answered rather than filibustered when asked how many people he'd slept with,
and he did that most unusual thing in a political leader - he allowed someone
else in his party, Treasury spokesman Vincent Cable - to hog the limelight.

For subverting Westminster niceties, Nick Clegg might one day be heralded a
visionary. Right now, asking party members to audit their leader's first year
elicits a sigh. "His heart is in the right place," says Mark Littlewood, a
former Lib Dem staff member on the right of the party, "but we're not always
sure about his head."

Clegg's head hasn't done badly, pulling off some fundamental repositioning of
his party this year. At this year's Lib Dem conference the party membership
voted through a programme of tax cuts, beginning with cuts for low earners, and
tighter controls on public spending commitments. Getting this past the
traditionally tax-raising grassroots was achieved the very week Lehman Brothers
went bust, and though the mood of austerity seemed right the government started
to talk about more not less spending. Clegg held firm.

Julian Astle of the CentreForum thinktank is gratified. "The years 2010-2020 are
going to be about getting a bigger bang for your buck and under Clegg's
leadership they have addressed that, having not really thought about it for a
decade. Four or five years ago they were a tax-and-spend party of the left - now
they are the party of small government, low taxes and civil liberties. It's a
quantum shift."

Alongside the tax change, they would allow patients not treated quickly enough
to be funded to go private. To mark his first anniversary Clegg embedded this in
a philosophical speech: power, Clegg thinks, should rest with neither
corporations nor the state, but at the lowest appropriate level. Large
monopolies should be broken up - the state will assume a limited role in helping
people after the most vulnerable have been supported.

Refashioning the party in Gladstone's image rather than that of the SDP of the
80s, the party is targeting the retention of those seats it won from the Tories
towards the end of the Major years (20 to 30) rather than those it could gain
off an unpopular Labour party (around 10, according to most strategists).

"Clegg has aligned their electoral imperative with policy positions," according
to Astle. Chris Huhne, who campaigned to the left of Clegg in last year's
leadership election, would not have positioned the party in this way.

This strategic decision is not universally supported. The critique is that it
makes him "David Cameron lite". Astle thinks this is glib: "He may look and
sound like Cameron, but that's him, not the policies."

But the polls have not been responsive. "At the moment they are [at] 15 points
in the polls. Last May it was 18-19 points on average," says one activist. "In
terms of the benchmark by which he wanted to be judged - doubling the number of
MPs in two elections - Clegg has to say he's disappointing."

In Clegg's defence, arguably former leader Charles Kennedy should have made
bigger gains when the Tories were on the floor electorally. Now the Tories have
recovered the third party is being squeezed.

Labour MPs are watching this strategic repositioning closely and, while
understanding it, worry about it. "We'd be happy for the Liberal Democrats to
hold the seats they got against the Tories," said Denis MacShane, who as a
Labour MP for a seat near Clegg's Sheffield Hallam, keeps an eye on the Lib Dem
leader. "But there is every chance they will go. The Lib Dems are no longer
distinctive enough."

One very senior party grandee is even more critical, thinking a more closely
SDP-like platform would be more successful, calling on his successor to abandon
the tax-cut pledge, return to a position of scrapping nuclear armaments and
restrengthen party policy on the euro (weakened by Clegg over the year). This
year Clegg lost one of the party's donors, Lord Jacobs, over tax reform and in
the last few weeks two senior aides have left his team.

Someone who supported Huhne for the leadership thinks Clegg has suffered: "The
dominant domestic issue over the last year has been the economy and that's just
not his subject." Huhne would have been better? "As a former business journalist
- yes, but think of the tensions between Chris and Vince if Chris had become
leader. So, actually - no."

Clegg has struggled, they say, because until four years ago he was European
politician. "He didn't know what the basic state pension is because he was an
MEP until recently," says one critic. But he concedes "it's not good enough".

There are therefore two theses political scientists might have been testing this
year. The first is whether a third party, no matter how plausible, can ever cut
through; the second is whether a politician is always destined to get trashed
for speaking his mind. The scientists will not have been pleased with Clegg's
fumbling of the state pension question but friends say the other faux pas were
very Clegg indiscretions.

One former adviser who helped coach Clegg in the first months of his leadership
said: "In his indiscretions he reminds me of John Major. A tendency to talk and
to be open. An openness that is admirable, until you get overheard."

"I am constantly looking for signs that the Liberal Democrats take themselves
seriously and that was not it," says one observer. "I can't believe Cameron and
[George] Osborne [the shadow chancellor] would have sat on a plane to Inverness
and talked that way about members of the shadow cabinet."

Next year brings significant battles for the Lib Dem leader when the party has
already said it will begin to raise subjects as themes rather than specific
policies. The early part of the year will be on the theme of modern families,
culminating in an attempt by education spokesman David Laws to persuade his
party at their spring conference to end their historic commitment to abolishing
tuition fees, and to inject more choice into early-years education.

Littlewood predicts this will test Clegg: "The thing about this year's tax
debate was that they were taking on the large but niche sandal-wearing
contingency. The thing about this spring's fight will be that they will be
taking on all the members who are students or teachers - a huge proportion."

The European elections may bring good news for Clegg. The right will be split -
Ukip, Libertas, BNP and the Conservatives - possibly allowing the Lib Dems to
come through the middle.

In the meantime, the experimental political scientists who may or may not be
getting Clegg to strike such refreshing political positions must get straight
whether they're doing it because they are very clever, or because they are not
yet very good.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               9 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                          December 17, 2008 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

Banged up without charge;
LETTERS

SECTION: Pg. 60

LENGTH: 163 words


THE warning about the dangers of 'harmonising' our judicial system with those of
the other EU member states (Mail) is timely. More than 100 British citizens have
already been extradited to the EU under the European Arrest Warrant.

What was the evidence against them? No one knows, because under the EAW, a
British court has no right to consider the prima facie evidence before granting
extradition, which is now merely a formality.

The latest case is that of Andrew Symeou, a 19-year-old London man accused of
manslaughter in Greece.

The evidence against him would not stand up for five minutes in a British court,
but he now faces months or even years in the Greek judicial system trying to
prove his innocence.

British courts can no longer prevent an injustice being done to a British
citizen by a foreign state even if they know that is precisely what is
happening.

We must re-establish protection for our citizens under our own law.

GERARD BATTEN, UKIP MEP for London, London E7..

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          December 17, 2008 Wednesday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 671 words


It now becomes quite clear that people are angry about the BBC's treatment of
"posh" Edward Stourton. There are tense discussions up and down the country, a
parliamentary motion and a petition is being prepared for Downing Street. A
Facebook site (Keep Ed Stourton on Today) has 400 members, including a message
from one Huw Edwards (who he?). The Today pogrom, the internet critics call it.

As we said, people are angry. But changing minds at the corporation will be
difficult, and as proof of this we see at last the justification being proffered
to listener Ben Beaumont by editor Ceri Thomas. "The best we can say, perhaps,
is that we do not do these things lightly and that we act in what we think are
the best long-term interests of the programme," he tells a listener. "We are
very sorry, of course, that Ed should have heard this news in the way that he
did, and we have offered him our apologies for the way the announcement was
handled. We had arrangements in place to meet Ed less than 24 hours later to
discuss our plans but, regrettably, someone involved in the process chose to
leak the news to the Daily Mail." The BBC could always announce his
reinstatement in the same way, of course. They could leak it through a column, a
diary column perhaps. No one would mind.

But if they do not, we can tell them that terrible things will happen. Are you
angry, we asked yesterday. "Yes, I'm angry," emailed Diary stalwart Dodie. Can
we fix it? Yes we can.

Nothing specific yet, but we have some ideas submitted by Lindis Percy, the
grandmother and veteran peace campaigner who evaded attempts by the police and
the Ministry of Defence to serve her with an asbo. She promises to raise the
issue at the US airforce facility at RAF Menwith Hill. "They do outrageous
things - unaccountable and secretive - bit like the BBC managers, come to think
of it," she tells us. She may reprise her stunt of sitting in the cockpit of a
C-10 US transport plane "I went to sleep for a while in front of US 'security'
personnel having a break in front of me," she recalls. "Lots of imaginative ways
to protest," says Lindis, and they all sound splendid. Today could cover it.

Bang up the bankers, said Red Dave Cameron, and they knew that he meant
business. "The fact the prime minister has not been urging our authorities to
pursue financial wrongdoing like in America is, in my view, a failure of moral
leadership," he said. And that's a valid point. But one could argue that it was
also a valid point two weeks ago, when MP Dai Davies tabled an early-day motion
pointing out that "unlike in the United States, no bankers in the United Kingdom
have been investigated for possible criminal actions in the selling of sub-prime
mortgages". He said the Crown Prosecution Service and the Financial Services
Authority "should co-operate in investigating the possible complicity of senior
employees of Northern Rock and Bradford & Bingley banks in the trade and sale of
toxic financial products". Seemed a good idea. But on that occasion no
Conservative signed up to it; the only non-Labour signatory was Bob Spink MP,
the man from Ukip. Still, Cameron and the crew are on board at last. Be
grateful. Be happy.

Be thankful, we say, and that particularly applies to those able to secure a
drink last night at the Tories' Christmas party. Last year the event was held at
Carbon, "a stylish late-night bar and club blessed with all the glamour you'd
expect from a West End venue" - but that was before the crunch. So this year it
was down to the City Inn, a hotel in central London where there was money behind
the bar but also restrictions on the amount people could consume.
Binge-drinking? Some hope.

Finally, following the shameful shoe attack on George W Bush, we learn
exclusively from Downing Street of new security arrangements to protect our
Gordon. "From now on we're going to have flip-flop-only press conferences," a
well-placed but nervous official tells us. Heels are out, as are loafers. And as
for Birkenstocks . . .

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 16, 2008 Tuesday 11:25 AM GMT

EU leaders attack transparency as undemocratic

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 415 words


I thought that, after ten years in the European Parliament, nothing could shock
me any more. I was wrong.

I blogged last week about the abominable way in which the leaders of the various
EP political groups traduced and insulted the President of the Czech Republic,
Vclav Klaus. Brian Crowley, the Fianna Fil leader, ticked him off for talking to
the leader of the "No" campaign, Declan Ganley. The Irish, he said, were in
favour of the European Constitution Lisbon Treaty. How could he say this?
Because his father had spent all his life fighting the British (quite an
achievement when the old man was born 13 years after independence).

This was as nothing, though, compared to Danny Cohn-Bendit, the egregious
soixante-huitard, who plonked a European flag in front of the President,
declared "I am not interested in your opinions," and then proceeded to hector
him in an unforgivable tone about the need for closer integration. A stunned Mr
Klaus was left muttering that no one had spoken to him in such a tone since the
days of Communist Czechoslovakia.

At the opening of this morning's session, I invited the acting Speaker to
declare, in the light of these exchanges, that the European Parliament valued
all democratic points of view, including those opposed to the Lisbon Treaty, and
that it respected the office of the presidency of the Czech Republic. He
declined to do so.

A few minutes later, Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, rose to make a similar
point. He reminded the Speaker, Hans-Gert Pttering, that, when 14 MEPs were
fined for demanding a referendum in the chamber, the stated reason was that they
had misbehaved in the presence of a national leader: Jos Scrates of Portugal.
Yet when Cohn-Bendit and others behaved with outrageous boorishness to another
national leader, Hans-Gert not only ostentatiously declined to restrain them,
but joined in, upbraiding the Czech leader for daring to mention Communist
Czechoslovakia (the complete transcript is available at the splendid EU
Referendum blog).

As Nigel sat down, the irritating little socialist leader Martin Schulz, who
recently complained that supporters of a referendum resembled Nazis, leapt to
his feet. It was scandalous, he said, that the transcript had been published.
Such meetings were traditionally secret. In disclosing what had been said, the
Czech Republic had not behaved like a democracy.

Got that? To put into practice the EU's much-invoked commitment to democracy is
undemocratic! You see how these people think.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            December 15, 2008 Monday

International: Europe's parties on spending spree after budget surplus: Bonanza
as windfall gives extra euros 6m before year end: Funds handout criticised amid
economic crisis

BYLINE: Ian Traynor, Brussels

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 443 words


Political leaders in the European parliament have awarded their parties millions
of euros in extra funding only weeks before the spending deadline because of a
large budget surplus.

Leaders of the main groupings in the parliament found last month that this
year's parliament budget would leave a surplus of more than euros 22m (£19.7m).

Documents leaked to the Guardian show that the political chiefs decided to share
euros 6m among the parliament's seven political groups rather than return the
money to the EU member states and so indirectly to the European taxpayer.

"They are on a spending spree. Effectively they have to spend this money within
two weeks. It seems the economic crisis has not spread there," said a
conservative parliamentary official who asked not to be named. He described the
move as a Christmas bonus.

Political leaders decided that euros 14.48m of the surplus would go back to the
EU's 27 member states. But euros 8m was retained, with euros 2m going to the
parliament's information office "with a view to providing extra resources for
the 2009 European election information campaign". The other euros 6m was
provided "for information actions carried out by political groups".

The Liberal Democrat MP Chris Davies said: "It seems an extraordinarily large
sum to distribute to political groups."

Nigel Farage, MEP and leader of the UK Independence party, said: "We received a
windfall and we intend to spend the money wisely, thank you very much." Farage
said the money would be spent in Ireland and the Czech Republic on a campaign
against the Lisbon treaty streamlining the way the EU is run. The Irish voted
against the treaty last June.

Farage and other Europhobes form the smallest caucus of the seven groupings in
the parliament, and they obtained euros 176,000. The two big groupings, the
centre-right European People's party and the centre-left Socialists, received
euros 2.2m and euros 1.6m in the surplus. The money was allocated under what is
known as a "4,000 budget item", which means it should be spent before the end of
the year.

"The political groups can use the money for anything except election
campaigning. They can decide how to spend it," said Tony Robinson, spokesman for
the Socialists. "We will use the money to make websites available in Italian and
Polish."

The current European parliament is nearing the end of its five-year term and
looking ahead to the elections of next June. The parliament's leaders hold a pot
of euros 23m for a publicity campaign across Europe linked to the elections.

7

The number of political groups at Brussels which will share in the euros 6m
which remains from parliament's budget this year

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               December 14, 2008

Europe's political parties on spending spree after budget surplus

LENGTH: 697 words


Political leaders in the European parliament have awarded their parties millions
of euros in extra funding only weeks before the deadline for the money to be
spent because of a large budget surplus.

Leaders of the main groupings in the parliament found last month that this
year's parliament budget would leave an unspent surplus of more than EUR22m
(£19.7m).

Documents leaked to the Guardian show that the political chiefs decided to share
EUR6m among the parliament's seven political groups rather than return the money
to the EU member states and so indirectly to the European taxpayer.

"They are on a spending spree. Effectively they have to spend this money within
two weeks. It seems the economic crisis has not spread there," said a
conservative parliamentary official who asked not to be named. He described the
move as a Christmas bonus.

Political leaders met last month in Strasbourg and decided that EUR14.48m of the
surplus would be returned to the EU's 27 member states. But EUR8m was retained,
with EUR2m going to the parliament's information office "with a view to
providing extra resources for the 2009 European election information campaign".
The other EUR6m was provided "for information actions carried out by political
groups".

The Liberal Democrat MP Chris Davies said: "It seems an extraordinarily large
sum to distribute to political groups."

Nigel Farage, MEP and leader of the UK Independence party, said: "We received a
windfall and we intend to spend the money wisely, thank you very much. You
would've thought it would all be given back, but that's not the way this place
works."

Farage and other Europhobes form the smallest caucus of the seven groupings in
the parliament. They obtained EUR176,000. The two big groupings, the
centre-right European People's party and the centre-left Socialists, received
EUR2.2m and EUR1.6m.

The money was allocated under what is known as a "4,000 budget item", which
means it has to be spent before the end of the year, although Socialist sources
said they could get round this by initiating projects before Christmas.

"The political groups can use the money for anything except election
campaigning. They can decide how to spend it," said Tony Robinson, spokesman for
the socialists. "We will use the money to make websites available in Italian and
Polish."

The current parliament is nearing the end of its five-year term before new
elections next June. The parliament leaders have already decided to spend EUR17m
on a propaganda campaign across Europe for the elections.

Last month's meeting awarded another EUR2m for that campaign. Two days
previously, it announced a further EUR4m in extra funding, bringing the campaign
pot to EUR23m.

"This is the first time the parliament has had a surplus like this," said the
Socialist source. "I don't think we asked for the money. And it's too early to
know what it will be spent on."

The European commission is also spending millions on next year's election
campaign amid fears that the ballot, coming in the midst of a European
recession, could see big victories for the hard left and extreme right and for
anti-EU populists.

Farage said his caucus's "windfall" would be spent in Ireland and the Czech
Republic on a campaign against the Lisbon treaty streamlining the way the EU is
run. The Irish voted against the treaty last June in the only referendum in
Europe, while the Czech Republic is the only other country which has yet to
ratify the treaty. The Irish are to be asked to vote again next year and the
treaty is supposed to come into force a year from now.

One of Germany's biggest PR and advertising agencies, Scholz and Friends, has
been contracted to run the election propaganda campaign and is to use the
Eurovision Song Contest, being staged in Russia three weeks before the European
election, to try to mobilise voters notoriously reluctant to turn out.

"Viewers from all over Europe vote for their favourite song, which creates an
analogy to the European election," says the agency's election strategy paper,
also obtained by the Guardian. Participants in the song contest are to wear a
European election badge in media appearances, as are the national hosts at the
contest.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               14 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 11, 2008 Thursday

Irish opponents of EU treaty set up party to fight in British elections

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 298  words


IRISH campaigners opposing the Lisbon Treaty are to put up candidates in
European elections in Britain next year in a move to turn the poll into a
referendum.

Declan Ganley, leader of the Irish No campaign, will launch Libertas as a
pan-European party in Brussels today as EU leaders meet to discuss a plan to
make the Irish hold a second referendum

The news that Libertas is running a British campaign will dismay the Labour
Government, which is vulnerable after Gordon Brown defied the opinion polls to
deny voters a referendum on the EU treaty earlier this year.

David Cameron's Conservatives, who hoped to turn next June's European Parliament
elections into a test for the Prime Minister's record, will also worry that many
Tories will use their votes as a bigger single issue protest against the treaty.
A statement from Mr Ganley's office said: "Libertas is a new European political
movement dedicated to campaigning for greater democracy, accountability and
transparency within the EU.''

Mr Ganley is recruiting a British soldier to be at the centre of his
pan-European campaign. The Libertas launch comes on the day a Brussels summit of
EU leaders meets to find a way to bypass the Irish referendum "No'' vote in time
for the Lisbon Treaty to come into force by 2010.

President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who holds the EU's rotating presidency, has
written to Europe's leaders to say that Brian Cowen, the Irish prime minister,
will report back "on ways to succeed in ratifying the treaty''.

Libertas is aiming to break beyond the traditional Tory or UK Independence Party
Eurosceptic constituency to win a majority of voters.

"The Government reneged on promises to hold a referendum. The European elections
can be turned into a popular vote on the Lisbon treaty,'' said Libertas source.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           December 11, 2008 Thursday
                                 First Edition

From prime time to prime minister?;
Presenter who helped send Britons to bed wakes up as the next hope for Canadian
Liberals. By Leonard Doyle

BYLINE: Leonard Doyle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 597 words


Familiar to viewers of late night BBC television, where for years he was a
blowhard intellectual and presenter of earnest human rights documentaries,
Michael Ignatieff was recently talking to Canadians about puffins.

While on a visit to the Atlantic province of Newfoundland and Labrador he
ventured that the birds would be a great symbol for the Canadian Liberal Party
and he reeled off some of their attributes, noting "they hide their excrement".

Yesterday, after months of plotting, Mr Ignatieff has formally taken charge of
the Liberal Party and stands on the cusp of becoming Canada's next prime
minister. It would be fair to say that millions of Canadians are scratching
their heads at the sudden turn of events. They know little about the
centre-right politician now in their midst; the Globe and Mail described him
yesterday as being "like an iceberg, nine-tenths below the surface".

The fact that he has lived outside the country for most of the past 39 years is
only part of the problem. More problematic is that Mr Ignatieff has little
political experience and his views on major issues have often been at odds with
the consensus of Canadian opinion. Many disagree strongly with his views on such
things as the war in Iraq, and for the millions of Canadians who like to define
themselves as the polar opposite of Americans, the prospect of Mr Ignatieff
becoming prime minister is a tad unsettling. "I loved my own country, but I
believed in America in a way that Canada never allowed," he wrote in the
magazine Granta in 2002.

As the de facto leader of a loose coalition of opposition parties that came
close to toppling the Conservative government of Stephen Harper last week, Mr
Ignatieff is in a position to decide whether to seek a change of government as
early as January. Two left-wing opposition parties are clamouring for him to do
so.

The 61-year-old former BBC political commentator and host of The Late Show was
uncharacteristically coy about his plans yesterday. But political analysts
expect him to move the Liberal Party to the right rather than force an immediate
change of government in Ottawa.

It is just three months since Mr Harper's Conservatives won the Canadian
elections but failed to secure a majority in the 308-member parliament. As such,
Mr Harper needs opposition support to pass budgets or legislation and is
vulnerable to sudden votes of no confidence.

An attempt to topple Mr Harper's government ended in pandemonium last week,
causing the outgoing Liberal leader, Stephane Dion, to quit. The crisis was
triggered by Conservative plans to end the subsidies the government pays
Canada's political parties. The Liberals, New Democrats and the Bloc Quebecois
depend on the funds far more than the Conservatives and the threat of withdrawal
saw them quickly unite against Mr Harper.

The Liberal party wanted a new leader in place before parliament votes on the
federal budget on 27 January. A threatened no-confidence vote at that time could
lead to a new coalition government being installed, with Mr Ignatieff at its
head.

Off air From TV to politics

Sarah Palin Worked as a television sports presenter in Anchorage before becoming
mayor of Wasilla, then governor of Alaska, and going stellar as John McCain's VP
nominee.

Robert Kilroy-Silk A Labour MP for Ormskirk from 1974-83, Kilroy-Silk left
politics to host a chat show before returning in 2004, running for the UK
Independence Party.

Martin Bell ABBC foreign correspondent, he left to challenge Neil Hamilton for
the safe Tory seat of Tatton.

As an independent, he overturned a 20,000 majority towin.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                          December 10, 2008 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2

ALL is not well aboard

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 78 words


ALL is not well aboard the European gravy train. The coffee machines in the
Berlaymont building, the European Commission headquarters in Brussels, have been
contaminated by lead and all 20 have been disconnected and carted off to be
treated. Nigel Farage, leader of the anti-European UK Independence Party, tells
The Whip: "It is well known that exposure to lead causes madness.

At last we may have found an explanation for the bizarre policies of the
European Commission."

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2008 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 8, 2008 Monday 6:40 PM GMT

Damian Green row: UKIP backing Labour

BYLINE: By James Kirkup

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 80 words


So Harriet Harman wins a fairly empty victory on the parliamentary inquiry into
Damian Green's arrest and the search of his office.  Not sure where the boycott
leaves the project, to be honest.  In trouble, I expect.

Meanwhile, a helpful soul in the lobbies tells me that he spotted none other
than Mr Bob Spink of UKP voting with HM Government this evening.

My kindly informant wonders, not unreasonably, where that leaves UKIP's claims
to be a defender of Parliamentary freedoms...

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 7, 2008 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Britain now at the mercy of left-wing EU

SECTION: NEWS; 8

LENGTH: 251  words


LABOUR has signed up to a Left-wing manifesto that could "cripple" our industry
and hand Brussels more power over defence and immigration policies.

The 15-page document, drawn up by the Party of European Socialists, calls for
the introduction of new trade union rights and a string of costly social
policies, including paid maternity leave lasting up to 18 months.

It would also strengthen the EU's grip over defence and push Britain into a
"burden sharing" system that would force us to accept asylum seekers who arrive
in other EU countries.

Europe Minister Caroline Flint signed up to the document in Madrid last week. It
will form the basis for Labour's manifesto at next year's European Parliament
elections.

Last night Timothy Kirkhope, leader of the C onservative group in the European
Parliament, said the manifesto reflected "the worst aspects of Seventies
Britain".

He said Labour MEPs had already damaged British interests by voting to end our
opt-out from the 48-hour working week.

"Labour MEPs are driving forward job destroying legislation and want the EU to
tell British workers how many hours they can work when many need to work to make
ends meet, " he said. Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said
Labour appeared to have signed up to guarantee continued funding from the
Parliament's socialist group which could be used to fight EU elections in June.

A Labour spokesman said the European document was a good basis for "tackling the
economic downturn in a fair way" across Europe.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 7, 2008 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Left-wing EU will 'cripple' industry

BYLINE: By Jason Groves

SECTION: NEWS; 34

LENGTH: 444  words


LABOUR has signed up to a Left-wing manifesto that could "cripple" our industry
and hand Brussels more power over our defence and immigration policies.

The 15-page document, drawn up by the Party of European Socialists, calls for
the introduction of new trade union rights and a string of costly social
policies, including paid maternity leave lasting up to 18 months.

It would also strengthen the EU's grip over defence policy and push Britain into
a controversial "burden sharing" system that would force us to accept asylum
seekers who arrive in other EU countries.

Europe Minister Caroline Flint signed up to the document on behalf of Gordon
Brown at a summit of EU socialist parties in Madrid last week. It will form the
basis for Labour's manifesto at next year's European Parliament elections.

Last night Timothy Kirkhope, leader of the Conservative group in the European
Parliament, said the manifesto reflected "the worst aspects of Seventies
Britain". He said Labour MEPs had already damaged British interests by voting to
end our opt-out from the 48hour working week.

"Labour MEPs are driving forward job-destroying legislation and want the EU to
tell British workers how many hours they can work during a time when many need
to work to make ends meet, " he said.

"They have voted to undermine our national defence policy and want to hand
control of foreign affairs to an EU foreign minister." Nigel Farage, leader of
the UK Independence Party, said Labour appeared to have signed up to guarantee
continued funding from the Parliament's socialist group which could be used to
fight EU elections in June.

"This manifesto is the price Britain is paying so that Labour can qualify for
lots of funding. It would be a commercial disaster for Britain if even half of
it were ever implemented." A Labour spokesman said the European document was a
good basis for "tackling the economic downturn in a fair way" across Europe. He
added: "Obviously we will interpret it in a way that is appropriate for
Britain." The manifesto suggests a European "pact" on wages and moves to
"strengthen rights to collective bargaining". It also talks of a "European
charter for the integration of migrants", and a common asylum system.

Last week the European Commission proposed changes to the agreement to return
asylum seekers to the country where they entered the EU.

The rule was introduced to limit the number of asylum seekers heading for EU
countries like Britain with generous benefits. Philip Bradbourn, Tory home
affairs spokesman in the European Parliament, said:

"One of the key responsibilities of any government is to control its borders,
yet Labour has given this power away."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 6, 2008 Saturday

EU to spend pounds 27m on promoting poll

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 284  words


THE European Union is planning to spend  pounds 27.5 million on promoting
Euro-elections next year.

An internal letter seen by The Daily Telegraph has revealed fears at the highest
level that June 2009 polls for the European Parliament could be a political
disaster for the EU.

Margot Wallström, the European Commission's vice-president responsible for
"communication'', expressed the concerns in a letter to the Parliament's
president. She wrote: "In next year's elections, the legitimacy of your
parliament, and that of the Union as a whole, is at stake.''

The Commission is intervening for the first time in the 30-year history of
European elections because of a high risk that voter turnout for the unpopular
EU assembly will fall to an all-time low.

The turnout for the last European elections in 2004 dropped to 45 per cent -
38.9 in Britain - rates that are almost a fifth lower than for the first poll
held in 1979.

Officials are concerned that if participation drops further then EU institutions
will be exposed as unpopular or irrelevant to voters.

Mrs Wallström has pledged budgets worth  pounds 14.5 million to be added to
pounds 13 million of parliament funding earmarked for the elections.

Brussels funding would be used to "mobilise our European and local networks,
NGOs and other organisations with whom the Commission works''. Money would also
be used to "specifically'' target "journalists of women's magazines'' and "to
support a blogging project with young journalists''.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party said: "With this the
Commission both throws down the gauntlet, and recognises, finally, that there
are question marks over the EU's legitimacy as a political project.''

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 4, 2008 Thursday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 664 words


You have to spend to save sometimes - even when money is tight - and this, we
note, is a popular rationale these days among the fine minds at Defra. In June
it emerged the department had spent £4m replacing office furniture over the past
four years. Now we know, courtesy of figures released by junior minister Huw
Irranca-Davies, that the same officials spent another £1m over three years
moving that furniture around as part of "office removal contract expenditure".
Defra, pressed by the Tories, says it is all part of a downsizing programme
which has seen offices closed and £7m saved; but it is unfortunate in the light
of revelations that the department recently spent £5,000 training caviar
inspectors. At least they'll have somewhere to sit.

Many of us at the Progress conference last weekend thought Gordon was awesome.
Focused, exuding authority, once again brimming with confidence. Derek Draper,
by contrast, spent the entire period of Gordon's address ostentatiously reading
his newspaper, but he perked up considerably when Lord Mandelson was speaking.
So his day wasn't a waste of time.

Should Robert Kilroy-Silk stand down as an MEP, asks the petition co-sponsored
by Labour, Tory, Lib Dem and Ukip politicians in the east Midlands, amid claims
about his failure to impact on life in Brussels and grumbles about his work
ethic (www.kilroystepdown.co.uk is the address by the way; don't thank us, it's
a public service). So far, 143 people say yes, he should go. Seven stand by
Kilroy. Perhaps they are grateful constituents. Maybe they are his family.
Either way, it's marvellous.

Eight weeks to go until the end of his BBC purdah, and Jonathan Ross is in the
public eye again (a charidee event on Tuesday). But still his prospects seem no
brighter. No one knows whether his Friday night turn on BBC 1 will regain its
former glory, and there is still talk of Wogan replacing him on Radio 2. The
threats are many, but one cannot say the same of the possibilities, and maybe
that is why earlier that day his fearsome agent Addison Cresswell was seen deep
in conversation at a Japanese eaterie with Elisabeth Murdoch. Her company Shine
serves many outlets but predominantly Sky, the empire that her father Rupert
built. Might there be something for Jonathan there if the others turn their
backs on him. Sensible to ask.

More evidence of year zero at the BBC arises from discussions with Bewick Films,
the Northumbrian independent, which saw significance in the 70th anniversary of
Billie Holiday first singing the classic Strange Fruit, with its images of
slavery, and the inauguration of America's first African American president.
They suggested a documentary examining the role of the song in the civil rights
struggle, which was considerable. Some believe it was a better anthem than "We
Shall Overcome". Wasn't this, they said, a perfect idea for BBC4's musically
themed Friday nights? Err, no, for "unfortunately the channel feels that there
is insufficient appetite" for a Holiday documentary. Moreover, "His career is
well served within the BBC archive." Still, for real fans, Billie's legacy
endures. We miss him.

Finally, because it is that time of year, another diary quiz. To the winner, a
bottle of champagne. Our thanks to Mathias Nilge of the University of Illinois
and Meditations magazine for providing us with the question. "What if
postmodernism and postmodernity are temporally disjunctive terms? What if, in
other words, postmodernism - a cultural revolution within theory - in fact
clears the way for a decentered, deregulated world that is none other than our
own postmodern society? In this case, postmodernism as a liberatory project
exhausts itself the moment postmodernity comes into being. But then what happens
to cultural resistance in postmodernity?" We're dumbing down with this we know,
but you're smart, and in this respect we are no different from University
Challenge. Let's say the winner is the first answer we understand.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            December 2, 2008 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

Is Mandelson plotting a new push for euro?

BYLINE: James Chapman

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 528 words


LORD Mandelson was at the centre of a row last night over 'secret' plans to
ditch the pound after an explosive claim that Britain is ready to join the euro.

The European Commission president said the UK was 'closer than ever before' to
signing up to the single currency.

Jose Manuel Barroso said he had held private conversations with 'the people who
count in Britain' and knew that they were ready to move into the euro-zone.

That was widely seen as a reference to Lord Mandelson, who said at the weekend
that 'our aim' should be to join the euro.

Lord Mandelson was the loudest cheerleader for the single currency during his
stints in Tony Blair's Cabinet and has just been recalled from Brussels, where
he was Britain's EU Commissioner.

But now he appears at odds with his new boss Gordon Brown.

Downing Street denied there had been any policy shift and said it had 'no plans'
to ditch the pound. Sources said the suggestion that Britain was ready to enter
was 'wishful thinking'.

Mr Barroso's remarks led to a backlash in Westminster. Shadow foreign secretary
William Hague pledged that there were 'no circumstances' in which a Conservative
government would propose joining the euro. The Tories were understood to be
preparing Parliamentary questions to Mr Brown, Lord Mandelson and other
ministers to establish what discussions had been held with EU chiefs over euro
entry.

Mr Barroso said senior British politicians believed the recent economic turmoil
made membership of the single currency a far more attractive option. He boasted
that the recession had weakened faith in the pound.

Speaking to French radio, the former prime minister of Portugal said: 'We are
closer than ever before. I'm not going to break the confidentiality of certain
conversations, but some British politicians have already told me "If we had the
euro, we would have been better off ".

'I know the majority in Britain are still opposed but there is a period of
consideration under way and the people who matter in Britain are thinking about
it.' Mr Hague said: 'Keeping the pound is vital for Britain's economic future.
We need interest rates that are right for Britain, not the rest of Europe.

'If Labour Ministers still want to get Britain into the euro, they should come
out and say so.' Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: 'If
Barroso would like to consult the "people who matter in Britain" then he can
call for a referendum on the euro so the people of Britain can tell him where to
go.' Lord Mandelson had told a political conference on Saturday: 'Our aim, our
goal, should be to enter the single currency.' But he conceded that the
Government was 'obviously not going to take on that challenge' in the current
economic climate.

Sources close to Lord Mandelson insisted last night that he had had no private
discussions on euro entry with Mr Barroso.

He also accepted that Mr Brown's five economic tests set in 1997 must be met
before Ministers would hold a referendum.

A European Commission spokesman said Mr Barroso's comments were 'reflections'.

He added: 'The British are very pragmatic. When they feel it is right to join
the euro, they will.' j.chapman@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lord Mandelson: Denies talks

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                December 1, 2008

UK closer to joining euro, EU commission president says

LENGTH: 401 words


The UK is "closer" to joining the euro than ever before, according to the
president of the European commission.

José Manuel Barroso said some British politicians were considering signing up to
the single currency in a bid to beat the effects of the global economic crisis.

He told French radio station RTL: "We are now closer than ever before.

"I'm not going to break the confidentiality of certain conversations, but some
British politicians have already told me, 'If we had the euro, we would have
been better off.'"

But Barroso admitted that the majority of people in the UK were still opposed to
the idea of joining the single currency.

A Downing Street spokesman said: "We have no comment on this. Our position on
the euro is the same - it has not changed."

William Hague, the shadow foreign secretary, said it was "extraordinary" that
the government was "whispering to the EU commission about joining the euro
behind the British people's backs".

"Keeping the pound is vital for Britain's economic future," he said. "We need
interest rates that are right for Britain, not the rest of Europe. There are no
circumstances in which the next Conservative government will propose joining the
euro."If Labour ministers still want to get Britain into the euro they should
come out and say so. We will be putting questions to the government to find out
what conversations have been going on."

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence party, said: "The ruling elite
would love to bounce us into the euro and will grasp at any straw to do so, for
it's a step on the way to their dream and our nightmare, a federal superstate.

"We're told that some British politicians have said, 'If we had the euro, we
would have been better off.' Whoever these people are we need to hunt them down
and explain some simple economics to them. Membership of the euro would have
meant lower interest rates in the boom, making the bubble even larger. And it
would mean higher interest rates now in the bust, making the recession even
deeper. The pound has fallen against both the dollar and the euro thus providing
us with that fiscal boost that everyone says is so necessary, a boost which we
couldn't have had if we were in the euro."

He said that if Barroso wanted to consult the people who mattered in Britain he
should call for a referendum on the euro and the Lisbon treaty "so that the
people of Britain can tell him where to go".

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved
