
                               1 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             March 31, 2008 Monday

Conway facing inquiry over pounds 163,000 profit from sale of house

BYLINE: Robert Winnett Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 526 words


DEREK CONWAY, the disgraced Tory MP, faces a second Parliamentary inquiry into
his use of expenses after it was disclosed that he

pocketed a six-figure windfall from the sale of a property, understood

to have been subsidised by the

taxpayer.

He is believed to have remortgaged his "second home'' - a central London flat
partly funded by the taxpayer - which was used to buy another semi-detached
house in Kent. He then sold the Kent property amid the furore over his misuse of
office expenses and made a pounds 163,000 profit.

Mr Conway was formally censured earlier this year for paying his sons to work as
his researchers even though there was no evidence of work being done.

The revelation led to a public outcry over the expenses paid to MPs. The system
is now being reformed.

However, despite calls for greater transparency, the Speaker last week launched
a High Court legal challenge to block the publication of detailed information
about expense claims for MPs' second homes. He alleges that the publication of
MPs' second home addresses would jeopardise their safety.

However, it is claimed that the information would reveal the large windfalls
that Mr Conway and other MPs have made from their taxpayer-subsidised
properties.

It also emerged yesterday that Barry Gardiner, the former Labour minister, made
more than pounds 200,000 profit in four years from a central London flat
overhauled partly at taxpayers' expense.

His constituency home is just eight miles from Westminster but he has claimed
more than pounds 80,000 since 2003 for the flat, which was sold last year.

Under the rules, MPs have to nominate a main and second home. They can claim all
the expenses, including mortgage interest, necessary for a second home.

Mr Conway, re-elected to Parliament in 2001, lived in a mansion block flat in
Victoria when he became MP for Sidcup in Kent.

In December 2002, public records show that he re-mortgaged the flat. Weeks later
he bought a home in Sidcup with his wife for pounds 185,000 without a mortgage.
It is thought that some of the money for the purchase came from re-mortgaging
his London flat.

Mr Conway is understood to have declared to the Parliamentary authorities that
his main home was his new property in Sidcup, 12 miles from Westminster,
allowing him to claim the costs of running his London flat. Over the next four
years he claimed pounds 84,929 in expenses for the property, close to the
maximum permitted amount.

Last month, the MP was criticised for improperly employing his sons. In July
2007, records show he sold the Sidcup property for pounds 348,495, making a
profit of pounds 163,495. In total, after the MP also paid two of his sons and
his wife for office work, the Conways are thought to have received hundreds of
thousands of pounds from the expenses system.

It is not known if he has yet paid tax on the profit from the property. He has
declined to comment.

Last night, Michael Barnbrook, the former UK Independence Party candidate who
made the formal complaint about Mr Conway, said he would be writing to the
Parliamentary authorities to demand a new inquiry. He said: "It looks like he
may be up to his silly tricks again.''

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             March 31, 2008, Monday

We're in for a nasty shock: a BNP triumph

BYLINE: Tim Hames

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 989 words


* Up and down Britain, the far Right is making stealthy progress

I cannot claim to have been to Redwell in Wellingborough, Northamptonshire,
although on paper it would seem a pretty pleasant place, rather more prosperous
than average. I have been through Yapton, in Arun, West Sussex, and that is
distinctly desirable territory. I think I have cut across Lawford and New
Bilton, in Warwickshire, too and while it was not quite the Cotswolds it was
hardly a centre of deprivation or tense race relations either.

All of which makes a recent pattern in local council by-elections more
unexpected. A by-election was held in Redwell West last Thursday. The
Conservatives easily retained the seat but there in second place, eight votes
ahead of Labour and with four times the strength of the Liberal Democrats was
the British National Party candidate. At Yapton, seven days beforehand, the BNP
had come third, a mere seven votes behind the Liberal Democrats, and with almost
a fifth of the vote. A fortnight earlier Lawford and New Bilton had witnessed a
cracking contest with Labour hanging on by a single vote over the Tories and
with the BNP securely third on 15 per cent, well ahead of Nick Clegg's
contender.

It is being said that the local elections on May 1 are a rather boring affair
with the obvious exception of the battle between Ken Livingstone and Boris
Johnson to be the mayor of London. The BNP, however, will be more interested in
the Greater London Assembly than whether Red Ken or the Blue Blond wins control
of the capital city. For the complex electoral method - the additional member
system - used for the assembly means that any political party has a decent
chance of winning one of the 25 seats at stake if it can accumulate 6 per cent
or so of the vote in the party list section of the ballot paper.

This is far from an impossible target for the BNP. The last local by-election
conducted in London was on March 20 at Gooshays in the Borough of Havering. The
BNP had narrowly won it in May 2006 in something close to a statistical fluke
but now had to defend it after the departure of its councillor. It was assumed
that this might be a challenge for the BNP. Far from it. Its share of the vote
went up from 28 per cent to 38 per cent. The Liberal Democrats, for the record,
managed the singularly strange feat of finishing sixth.

The ward of Gooshays is striking for the lack of immigrants who live there. The
ward is 96.4 per cent white, making it one of the least ethnically diverse in
London. The place, however, is polarised by age (disproportionately large
numbers of very young and very old voters), has comparatively high unemployment
and very low levels of educational attainment. It is ideal terrain for the BNP
and there are other Gooshays in London. That being so, the stealth success of
the BNP could be the real story of the local elections.

This is surprising in many ways. Not least because the BNP has been through a
period of fratricidal factionalism. There have been purges, resignations and
attempts to establish rival nationalist parties. Some within its ranks have
accused the leader, Nick Griffin, of "dictatorial tendencies" (fancy joining a
neo-fascist party and then discovering that the fuhrerprinzip reigns there)
while others consider him a bit of a pinko for wanting to play down race in an
effort to become more respectable.

None of this internal anguish appears to matter much at polling stations. Stick
a BNP champion up in a local by-election and he will accomplish 10-20 per cent
in swaths of England. On that evidence, the BNP will have its triumph in London.

So why do I expect the BNP to do well? There seem to me to be three factors that
might prove important.

The first relates specifically to the forthcoming local elections. The last time
that this set of seats were fought was in June 2004 when the tussle in London
and councils elsewhere were combined with elections for the European Parliament
vote in an attempt to raise the turnout. It did, but it was the UK Independence
Party that benefited from these joint elections, not only doing very well in the
battle for the European Parliament but in the locals too - it seized two Greater
London Assembly seats, for example. The typical UKIP and BNP supporters are by
no means identical but there is a degree of overlap between them and the surge
for the former did diminish the prospects of the latter. On May 1 there will be
no European Parliament poll to help UKIP - which too has suffered from schisms
of late - by pushing Europe towards the top of the agenda.

The second factor is that the BNP has improved its organisation. The in-house
feuding has not prevented the BNP from honing a much more sophisticated approach
to campaigning. The quality of its leaflets has improved, there have been
instances of it engaging in telephone canvassing and reports of more "mystery
shopping" where its activists blitz an area to market test the public reaction
to the party and then determine whether it is worth fielding a candidate.

The final dimension is the most significant. The optimal conditions for the BNP
are where there are substantial numbers of disillusioned ex-Labour supporters
and a Conservative Party that is wary of concentrating on subjects such as
asylum-seekers because it wants to appeal to mainstream metropolitan opinion. It
is also a bonus for the BNP if the Liberal Democrats look more centrist and are
not indulging in populism to chase the protest vote. These are precisely the
political circumstances that will be at play in the local elections of 2008,
especially in London.

The main constraint on the BNP in London is how well it can stretch its limited
resources. It won 4.8 per cent of the assembly vote in 2004 even with UKIP in
the frame. If it can win anything close to double that this time, then
regardless of whether it is Mayor Ken or Mayor Boris, it will be the BNP that
provides the shock of this election.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             March 21, 2008 Friday

High price of EU;
LETTERS

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 89

LENGTH: 170 words


IT'S MEP Richard Corbett's mathematics that are 'warped' in calculating the cost
of EU membership (Letters).

My annual report How Much Does The EU Cost Britain? clearly shows that even at a
conservative estimate the combined direct and indirect costs of membership for
2007 amount to at least £883 net (allowing for the EU rebate) or £1,002 gross
per man, woman and child in the UK.

Tony Blair certainly did surrender part of the British rebate for the 2007 to
2013 budget, amounting to £7.7 billion and after 2013 the rebate will be
adjusted progressively downwards and pressure will be applied for it to be
abolished altogether.

There is simply nothing in terms of trade and co-operation with Europe that
cannot be achieved outside the EU and without the colossal costs of political
and economic integration.

My report calls for an independent cost-benefit analysis of British membership
and anyone who wants a free copy can download it from my website at
www.gerardbattenmep.com GERARD BATTEN, UKIP MEP for London, London E7..

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            March 20, 2008 Thursday

Comment & Debate: Diary: Hugh Muir

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 657 words


Recipe time. Take a roomful of anti-EU obsessives, brought together by Ukip
members and particularly by our friend the former tennis player Buster Mottram,
who as a short-lived talisman for the National Front did so much for multiracial
Britain. Add into the mix Richard Barnbrook, the mayoral candidate for the BNP,
who joined them all last weekend at the Hurlingham, the private members' club in
London, for supper and lively discussion. Allow them to stew in their own juice
while we consider again the notion that there is as much to unite the two
parties as to divide them. And what do you get? Something pretty unsavoury.

Wouldn't the late Bill Deedes have absolutely loved the central London party
they threw to mark the publication of Stephen Robinson's book about him, The
Remarkable Lives of Bill Deedes? Iain Duncan Smith was there; Michael Howard;
Lord Bramall, the former chief of defence staff. Bill's beloved relatives, among
them daughter Lucy and grandsons George and Henry. Some of his favourite
journalists too: Sir Peregrine Worsthorne, Charles Moore, and Private Eye editor
Ian Hislop. Andrew Neil turned up, accompanied by a striking lady, and he didn't
seem to mind at all that the book records Bill's opinion of the Barclay Brothers
- one of Neil's employers - as "a stinking mob". They take the rough with the
smooth. Bill would have understood.

"Bush speech hails Iraq 'victory', " BBC Online reported yesterday. And it is
true. They won the Asia Cup soccer tournament last July, beating Saudi Arabia,
and are in group A for the 2010 World Cup qualifiers. This must be what he was
referring to. What else could it be?

The fight is on to save Lines in Potentis, the Ben Okri poem inscribed on a
foyer wall at London's city hall. Yesterday we noted that Alan Craig, the
Christian People's Alliance mayoral candidate, says he would take it down
because it is an invocation to the Egyptian god Ra. "Ra may still be worshipped
in Nigeria but I want Christ acknowledged in city hall," he said. Okri, who was
commissioned to write the poem in 2002, can't decide whether to laugh or cry.
"It celebrates London, it is a love poem to London," he said. "And anyway,
Nigerians are mostly Christian or Muslim. They don't worship Ra. It's a poetic
device, much as Shakespeare would refer to Apollo. It is sad to see that this
man doesn't understand poetry." Apollo of course was Greek, and they're
Christian. Well kind of. As for things our friend may not understand. Where
shall we start?

"She has touched and transformed the lives of literally thousands and thousands
of people around the world." So said Hillary Clinton of landmine campaigner
Heather Mills some time ago, in a testimonial available on YouTube. Sir Paul
McCartney was one of them. The others all fared better.

For entertainment and intellectual stimuli, we bring you the much acclaimed jazz
trio Curios, featuring pianist Tom Cawley. The website of the Vortex Jazz Club
in east London, quoting critic Chris Parker, speaks of "a fierce but subtle
interaction, an appeal that rests as much on textural and rhythmic variety as on
melodic felicity or straightforward propulsiveness, a pleasing homogeneity of
approach with its source in the brooding, ruminative quality of Cawley's
compositions." Hummable, too.

If confession is good for the soul, how good must they be feeling at Express
Newspapers today? We lied and lied about the McCanns, oh Lord, they said. Only
penitence and a big fat cheque can wash away our sins. And now we wait for Peter
Hill, the editor of the daily, to show similar contrition for the tidal wave of
dubious stories that have been published about one of the paper's other
obsessions: asylum seekers. He may even agree to meet one, having turned down
the chance offered to him by the pressure group London Citizens last week. The
offer is still open, as is the door to salvation. Walk through, my friends. Take
a chequebook.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 March 13, 2008

UK MEPs fined after EU treaty protest

LENGTH: 319 words



HIGHLIGHT: Four British MEPs have been fined hundreds of pounds for staging an
EU treaty referendum protest in the European parliament


Four British MEPs have been fined hundreds of pounds for staging an EU treaty
referendum protest in the European parliament.

The president of the European parliament, Hans-Gert Pöttering, has docked the
allowances of MEPs involved in the disruption of the parliament last December.

Dozens of MEPs, many of them from the Conservative party and the UK Independence
party, disrupted business in the parliament in Strasbourg by heckling at and
protesting against EU leaders who signed the new EU charter of fundamental
rights.

As Pöttering, José Manuel Barroso, the president of the European commission, and
the Portuguese prime minister, José Socrates, signed the charter - which Britain
says will not apply in the UK - the British-led band of Europhobic MEPs unveiled
banners and T-shirts demanding a referendum on the EU treaty.

Nine MEPs face sanctions as a result, including British Conservative MEP Roger
Helmer, independent MEP Jim Allister and Ukip's Roger Knapman, who will all lose
three days' allowance. The MEPs' daily allowance is ?287. Ukip MEP Godfrey Bloom
learned he will be fined two days' allowance for his part in the fracas.

Gary Titley MEP, Labour's leader in Europe, denounced the protest: "I hope we
have seen the back of those bully-boy tactics. Democracy is about respecting
each other."

Bloom said: "A quarter of a million people voted for me to protest against the
EU and I'm not going to stop doing that because a few Euro-nationalists decide
to take away my pocket money.

"I was proud to stand shoulder to shoulder with MEPs from across Europe to
protest at the repulsive behaviour of the European parliament.

"It's probably hard for these chaps to understand because they're a bit tight,
but the people they have made suffer with these proposals are the small
charities because that's who I give my allowances to."

Knapman said he was too long in the tooth to be told what to do by a German
president.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               6 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 March 13, 2008

UK MEPs fined after EU treaty protest

LENGTH: 217 words



HIGHLIGHT: Four British MEPs have been fined hundreds of pounds for staging an
EU treaty referendum protest in the European parliament


Four British MEPs have been fined hundreds of pounds for staging an EU treaty
referendum protest in the European parliament.

The president of the European parliament, Hans-Gert Pöttering, has docked the
allowances of MEPs involved in the disruption of the parliament last December.

Dozens of MEPs, many of them from the Conservative party and the UK Independence
party, disrupted business in the parliament in Strasbourg by heckling at and
protesting against EU leaders who signed the new EU charter of fundamental
rights.

As Pöttering, José Manuel Barroso, the president of the European commission, and
the Portuguese prime minister, José Socrates, signed the charter - which Britain
says will not apply in the UK - the British-led band of Europhobic MEPs unveiled
banners and T-shirts demanding a referendum on the EU treaty.

Nine MEPs face sanctions as a result, including British Conservative MEP Roger
Helmer, independent MEP Jim Allister and Ukip's Roger Knapman, who will all lose
three days' allowance. The MEPs' daily allowance is ?287. Ukip MEP Godfrey Bloom
learned he will be fined two days' allowance for his part in the fracas.

Gary Titley MEP, Labour's leader in Europe, denounced the protest: "I hope we
have seen the back of those bully-boy tactics. Democracy is about respecting
each other."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               7 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 13, 2008 Thursday 8:09 PM GMT

Bob Spink walks, but to where?

BYLINE: By Mick Fealty

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 294 words


The sudden resignation of right wing Tory MP Bob Spink has blogosphere tongues
wagging. Time for the tin foil hats, perhaps?

Does UKIP beckon for Bob Spink?

In any case, Spink has contacted Guido to make sure he gets his line out before
the party line that he was sacked takes hold:

The Chief Whip said my resignation would disrupt the Party Spring Conference
this weekend and asked me to reconsider, or at least to delay announcement. I
refused.

Hmmm... He goes on to make some rather serious allegations too. This is decidely
messy, and may not be that easy to tidy up quickly.

Given his membership of the better off out group, there's been some strong
speculation here and here that he's on his way to UKIP, with whom undoubtedly he
has had cordial relations (they don't stand against any MP within that
grouping).

The terms slip, cup and lip come to mind.

Anthony Little reckons it's a shoe in for the Tories next time out. Indeed the
precidents are on his side. So far as independents are concerned there are few
with the media profile of a George Galloway to withstand the pressure of the
constituency machine.Spink seems to have been a hard working (if highly
rebellious) MP who in 1997 experienced one of the largest falls in his vote, but
fought back strongly in 2001 to regain his seat with one of the largest rises.

Conservative Home, often strident critics of the mainstream party backs the
actions of the chief whip on this one:

The party cannot be blackmailed by an MP who wants to be protected from
accountability to local party members. Our general view is that incumbent MPs
need to be more accountable - not less.

As Guido notes, this is going to be quite a bunfight.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 13, 2008 Thursday 8:09 PM GMT

Bob Spink walks, but to where?

BYLINE: By Mick Fealty

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 294 words


The sudden resignation of right wing Tory MP Bob Spink has blogosphere tongues
wagging. Time for the tin foil hats, perhaps?

Does UKIP beckon for Bob Spink?

In any case, Spink has contacted Guido to make sure he gets his line out before
the party line that he was sacked takes hold:

The Chief Whip said my resignation would disrupt the Party Spring Conference
this weekend and asked me to reconsider, or at least to delay announcement. I
refused.

Hmmm... He goes on to make some rather serious allegations too. This is decidely
messy, and may not be that easy to tidy up quickly.

Given his membership of the better off out group, there's been some strong
speculation here and here that he's on his way to UKIP, with whom undoubtedly he
has had cordial relations (they don't stand against any MP within that
grouping).

The terms slip, cup and lip come to mind.

Anthony Little reckons it's a shoe in for the Tories next time out. Indeed the
precidents are on his side. So far as independents are concerned there are few
with the media profile of a George Galloway to withstand the pressure of the
constituency machine.Spink seems to have been a hard working (if highly
rebellious) MP who in 1997 experienced one of the largest falls in his vote, but
fought back strongly in 2001 to regain his seat with one of the largest rises.

Conservative Home, often strident critics of the mainstream party backs the
actions of the chief whip on this one:

The party cannot be blackmailed by an MP who wants to be protected from
accountability to local party members. Our general view is that incumbent MPs
need to be more accountable - not less.

As Guido notes, this is going to be quite a bunfight.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 13, 2008 Thursday 4:39 PM GMT

Fined for being Euro-sceptics

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 424 words


A number of Euro-sceptic MEPs are to be fined for having demonstrated in the
chamber in favour of a referendum on the European Constitution. Polish, Italian,
French and Austrian MEPs are among those being punished, as well as a couple of
UKIP members and my Tory colleague Roger Helmer. The fines range from 400 to
1000, and have been allocated more or less arbitrarily.

Only protests that don't attack the system are deemed acceptable

This blog keeps warning that the European Parliament is making its rulings
despotically. If you think my language is alarmist, consider what has just
happened.

No demonstration before or since has met with any such sanction. Yesterday, for
example, dozens of Liberal and Green MEPs held up placards to protest about the
treatment of a human rights activist. No problem there. But the sight of the
wordREFERENDUM was so offensive to my federalist colleagues that they sent the
parliamentary ushers to tear the placards away (the poor ushers couldn't have
been politer or more apologetic) and then moved to fine the people holding them.

These fines have been dished out almost randomly. One of the Austrian members
being penalised was in Frankfurt on the day of the demo. Several other MEPs who
joined the protest , including a number of Conservatives, such as David Sumberg,
Syed Kamall and me , have got off scot-free. Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, was
so annoyed not to have been punished that he rose on a point of order in the
manner of Kirk Douglas, shouting: "I'm Spartacus!"

Everyone understands what is really going on. Members are being penalised, not
for having demonstrated, but for being Euro-sceptics. Such discrimination is a
daily fact of life here. It is well understood, for example, that integrationist
members can get away with all manner of irregularities , even with outright
fraud , and face no consequences. Attack the system, however, and you risk
having charges trumped up against you. One Austrian Euro MP, who had made
himself unpopular by exposing the expenses fiddles of his socialist colleagues,
was threatened with fines of tens of thousands of euros because he had, in
effect, filled in a form incorrectly.

What would you call this if not arbitrary rule? There are no impartial laws any
more. The parliamentary authorities can behave more or less as they please,
cracking down on anyone whose opinions offend them. And this, remember, is meant
to be the one democratic institution in the EU.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            March 12, 2008 Wednesday

'Good citizens' may get tax rebate Other proposals to encourage sense of
Britishness include children swearing an oath of allegiance

BYLINE: Philip Johnston Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1219 words


COUNCIL tax rebates and help with university fees could be offered in return for
volunteer work in an attempt to encourage good citizenship under plans being
considered by the Government.

A report to the Prime Minister proposed offering a "small'' council tax return
to those who help out in their local neighbourhood by organising recycling
projects, helping children to learn to read in schools or setting up a
residents' association.

Youngsters volunteering for community work before university would get help
paying off their tuition fees.

Lord Goldsmith, the former attorney general, who set out the ideas in a
wide-ranging review of British nationality and citizenship, said the sum would
need to be ''sufficient to encourage people to participate''.

As part of the citizenship review he also recommended that school leavers take
part in "coming of age ceremonies'' at which they would swear allegiance to the
Queen "to mark the passage between being a student of citizenship and an active
citizen''.

The proposals were greeted with derision last night and branded "half-baked''
and "inappropriate''.

John Dunford, the general secretary of the Association of School and College
Leaders, said: "This is a half-baked idea, which should be allowed quietly to go
mouldy.''

He added: ''Schools will reject it as an un-British idea imported from America,
which does not fit into their ethos or culture.''

Lord Goldsmith's 130-page report, "Citizenship: Our Common Bond'', calls for a
National Day to be established, preferably in the autumn when there are no bank
holidays.

It would be introduced in 2012 to coincide with the London Olympics and the
Queen's Diamond Jubilee and be modelled on Australia Day, when citizens affirm
their loyalty and celebrate the country's successes.

There were signs that an idea intended to bring the country together could
exacerbate tensions within Britain, as the Scottish Executive said the proposal
would not be accepted north of the border.

Nigel Don, a Nationalist MSP, said the idea was "uncharacteristic of Scottish
society'' where the general feeling was of loyalty to each other. Ieuan Wyn
Jones, the Welsh Deputy First Minister and leader of Plaid Cymru, said: ''I
don't think this is appropriate.''

Lord Goldsmith conceded there was no crisis of identity in Britain but said it
had become more "divided'' in recent years and it was important to restore a
sense of belonging.

Other proposals include a review of "archaic'' treason laws and fast-track
citizenship for immigrants working in public services such as the NHS.

Foreign nationals resident in Britain for a lengthy period would be put under
pressure to take up citizenship, or lose access to some entitlements.

Commonwealth and Irish citizens would lose the right to vote in British general
elections - including 6,000 soldiers currently serving in the British Army.

The paper also recommends lifting the ban on asylum seekers taking paid jobs;
cutting the pounds 655 citizenship fee for foreign applicants and creating a
National Citizens' Corps to offer advice to others on citizenship.

The report also suggests a "Deliberation Day'' to be held on the Saturday before
each General Election to encourage political debate, and encouraging companies
to let staff take time off to volunteer.

However, Lord Goldsmith dropped earlier suggestions to overhaul the National
Anthem by removing verses deemed "inappropriate'' by some.

He also ruled out the possibility of compulsory civic service for young people
or mandatory voting in elections for all adults.

Mr Brown has been keen to push a Britishness agenda in the face of concerns over
the impact of devolution on the Union and the influence of Scottish politicians
in senior Government positions.

His spokesman said: "The Prime Minister thinks this is a good issue to have a
debate about. He has said we need to do more to entrench the notion of
Britishness in society.''

But Nigel Farage, the leader of UKIP, said: "It is ironic that at the precise
moment the Government are signing us up to a new EU legal order which leaves us
powerless, they decide they want to champion Britishness.''

Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader, said: "People should not feel that
being British is about swearing allegiance, it should be about taking an active
role in society.''

National day

Although the United Kingdom's constituent nations each has a saint's day, only
St Patrick's Day (March 17) is a public holiday, in Northern Ireland.

The French have Bastille Day on July 14 to commemorate the start of the
revolution in 1789 and the Americans have July 4 to mark independence from the
British. But Lord Goldsmith does not want a date laden with historical
significance.

His preferred model is Australia Day, which ''is used to celebrate what it means
to be an Australian, the achievements of the country and...to identify the
improvements that can be made''.

An Honours List to mark "the achievements of ordinary citizens rather than those
of senior figures in public life'' would be published on National Day. A
citizenship ceremony would also be held, attended by the Prime Minister and a
senior royal, to recognise "outstanding acts of volunteering''.

Lord Goldsmith says it would not celebrate the Union but rather ''the bond of
shared citizenship'', and would not be a Government event.

Coming of age ceremonies

Young people leaving school would take part in ceremonies to mark their move
from ''students of citizenship to active citizenship'', said Lord Goldsmith.

The former attorney general said the events would involve swearing an oath
either to the Queen as head of state, or to the nation.

His review said they could take place at school or elsewhere in the local
community. Schools would be encouraged to hold "mock'' ceremonies to prepare
pupils for the event.

"The ceremony should be seen as a key stage in engaging a young person in the
life of the community and the responsibilities of citizenship,'' the review
says.

''There must be an element of celebration; but they could be designed to help
young people understand that, by passing through this stage of life, they are
also acquiring responsibilities to contribute to making a better society.''

As an incentive to making this transition, students would be encouraged to join
a National Citizens' Corps and take part in civil activity.

Treason

Britain's treason laws, which date to the Treason Act of 1351, are archaic and
should be reformed, says Lord Goldsmith.

Although capital punishment for murder was abolished in 1965, treason remained
technically a hanging offence until 10 years ago. It remains a crime to "levy
war'' against the Queen or "stir'' a foreign invasion of her kingdom. It is also
treason to "violate'' the wife of either the sovereign or heir to the throne.

Lord Goldsmith - who in 2003 when attorney general brought an action against the
Guardian newspaper under the Treason Felony Act 1814, said "a charge of treason
risks the glorification of behaviour which may be dealt with as an ordinary
criminal offence''.

The Guardian had published a series of articles advocating the abolition of the
monarchy.

But he accepts that the offence of treason should be retained ''to recognise the
particularly grave nature of acts that are committed with the aim of
overthrowing government or harming fellow members of society'

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              March 9, 2008 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

What has the EU ever done for us . . ?;
FOCUS - Apart from send our fuel bills soaring of course

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; 10

LENGTH: 1454  words


FAMILIES could face an annual GBP 130 rise in fuel bills if Britain signs up to
the Lisbon Treaty and hands more power to Brussels. Ratifying the treaty will
leave the nation powerless to prevent the European Union from ordering us to
build up emergency oil stocks - at a cost of GBP 6billion.

Campaigners say the charge is just one example of how the British way of life is
being fundamentally altered by our relationship with the EU.

In the run-up to last week's parliamentary vote on a referendum, campaign group
Open Europe published a report called The EU And You.

It details how Directives from Brussels, rubber-stamped by Westminster, have
shaped and changed our lives, for good and ill.

It names Brussels as the starting point for everything from health warnings on
cigarette packets to the number of foreign footballers in Premiership clubs.

But it is the effect on our households, and our wallets, which makes the most
startling reading. Fortnightly bin collections, soaring household bills, higher
food costs and the controversial Home Information Packs all started life as
European Directives.

Ministers have argued that HIPs will speed up the house-buying process but the
reality is the packs are little more than a vehicle to introduce the EU's Energy
Performance of Buildings Directive.

This requires all homes to have an energy performance certificate by 2009.

A Government -commissioned study, published last week, reveals that 70 per cent
of home owners think the packs, which cost up to GBP 400, have not improved the
selling process.

Britons are also facing higher bills to heat homes because of Europe's desire to
be at the vanguard of the climate change battle.

The EU's Emissions Trading Scheme has the laudable "polluter pays" principle at
its heart. But in reality, higher costs for electricity companies have been
passed down, resulting in higher bills for home owners. Watchdog body Ofgem
calculates that GBP 31 of your annual bill is due directly to the ETS.

Higher electricity bills, however, will not prevent Britons being forced to
squint under low-level light bulbs, courtesy of another EU edict.

The 150-watt bulb will be the first to disappear from supermarket shelves this
year in the Brussels purge of incandescent lighting.

The 100-watt bulb will follow in 2009 and by 2010 even the 40-watt bulb will be
a collector's item. But curiously, Brussels' obsession with low lighting does
not extend to Britain's cars or vans. From 2011, all new vehicles will be fitted
with compulsory daylight running lights.

It is supposed to be a road safety measure, but the Motorcycle Action Group
branded it "EU lunacy".

Higher energy bills are being matched by rising water costs.

Between 2005 and 2010, your water bill is set to rise a massive 18 per cent
above inflation. This is the cost of Brussels' determination for us all to enjoy
cleaner drinking water.

And through a combination of tariffs on food imports from outside the EU and the
subsidies handed to farmers though the bloated Common Agricultural Policy, our
food bills are also on the rise.

A study by Oxford Economics concluded that the average family of four would be
GBP 2,500 a year better off if tariffs were removed and trade liberalised.

But some attempts by Brussels to make our lives better have backfired. The Waste
Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive was supposed to see us dutifully
carting our dead toasters, computers, fridges and televisions to the local tip
where they would be recycled and re-sold by public-private partnerships.

In reality, all it has led to is a huge increase in illegal dumping.

And Britons are still struggling to get to grips with the EU Postal Services
Directive, designed to "harmonise services based on costs".

Post Office queues have lengthened, with confused customers unsure whether their
letter needs a standard or higher value stamp.

FROM the wind turbines which line our shores to the EU flag on our driving
licences, our lives are shaped in myriad ways. The EU Money Laundering Directive
is the reason why you need to take two utility bills and your passport to open a
simple savings account at your local bank.

The Measuring Instruments Directive means our pint glasses now bear the CE mark
rather than the traditional crown symbol. Our fruit and veg is no longer weighed
in pounds and ounces and our homes are no longer measured in feet and inches.
And if you thought Labour was chiefly responsible for the "nanny state" nature
of modern Britain, think again.

Our cigarette packets bear lurid health warnings courtesy of Brussels (with even
more lurid pictures to follow) and food packaging carries warnings of fat
content and nuts because of the EU - as if the dangers hadn't been rammed down
our throats enough already.

From 2009 the EU Food Supplements Directive will lay down a list of which
vitamins and minerals may be used in food supplements, leading to a blacklist of
up to 200.

And when your grumpy son wants to know why, at the ripe old age of 12, he has to
be strapped down to an embarrassing car booster seat, you may inform him that
under an EU Directive he must bear the ignominy until he reaches 13 (or a height
of 135cm). Report author Lorraine Mullally said: "The EU now has a powerful
influence on our everyday lives. But as a result of the way the EU operates, it
is often not clear to voters when a particular decision or policy originates in
the EU.

"Domestic legislation is often a shell for the purpose of implementing European
law. And often, even if EU legislation has not wholly determined a particular
decision, the EU law has an important influence on policy makers and officials."
Parliament's two-week scrutiny of the Lisbon Treaty has done little to enlighten
voters about the impact of Brussels on Britain.

Westminster politicians argued about the nature of the treaty itself - with
campaigners warning that it is the ditched constitution in all but name and
therefore requires a referendum. The debate has also focused on the big issues -
the Euro Army, voting rights for member states, a European foreign minister and
whether Tony Blair will become Europe's president.

Successive foreign secretaries have repeatedly insisted red-line areas - foreign
policy, tax, immigration and defence - will not be handed over to Brussels. But
referendum campaigners warn that over time even these red lines will be eroded.

Removing the right of member states to a veto and increasing majority voting
will see a radical increase in the number of regulations coming from Brussels.

Britain's ability to block unwanted EU laws will be cut by a third. Alongside
the EU's planned Oil Stocks Directive, other Brussels laws in the pipeline
include the Temporary Agency Workers Directive. Its laudable aim is to improve
the rights of temporary workers, but the CBI has warned that in practice it
could cost 250,000 British jobs.

Transport Secretary Ruth Kelly last week kicked road pricing proposals into the
long grass - but they could be revived by Brussels, keen to justify the billions
spent on Europe's ill-fated Galileo satellite system.

And Britain will find it impossible to block the planned Health Services
Directive, which would allow patients to pay for treatment in any EU country,
creating a two-tier health service. The British Medical Association has warned
of a treaty clause which "empowers the EU to act on serious cross-border threats
to health" - raising the spectre of a Eurojab for Britons for anything from TB
to measles.

The European Commission is also talking about asylum burden sharing to take the
strain off countries with the highest number of claims - Spain, Malta, Italy and
Greece.

THE UK has the power to opt out of this measure, but the Commission could apply
the political thumbscrews by yoking burden-sharing to Britain's right to expel
asylum seekers.

Unless Britain accepts its share of the EU's refugee burden, then Brussels could
stop us deporting asylum claimants back to the EU country they first entered.
Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said Britons should brace
themselves for a Common Immigration Policy, just as we have a Common
Agricultural Policy or a Common Fisheries Policy.

"It suits both the Conservatives and Labour not to focus on the extent to which
we are governed by Brussels but the reality is 75 per cent of all legislation
comes from Europe.

"And the Lisbon Treaty will open the door to a Common Immigration Policy. The
idea that we can stop this from happening is ludicrous.

"I just wonder, with the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty, why would anyone
bother to vote in a British general election?" Perhaps this is the reason Gordon
Brown is considering holding an election next June on the same day as the
European elections.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            March 5, 2008 Wednesday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 681 words


Where have all the heroes gone? People who lead from the front. People who stand
up for what they believe in. Jeffrey Titford, the Ukip MEP for the Eastern
Counties, is on the hunt for such a figure to lead the forces of "Euro-realism"
in the titanic ongoing battle against the European treaty. "It is becoming clear
that we need to take to the streets in much greater numbers to show the
establishment in Europe and at Westminster that we mean business," he said. "It
may even be necessary for our cause to have a martyr, someone of a high profile
who is prepared to go to jail to show how repressive the European Union has
become." And he's right. Someone must agree to sacrifice themselves and before
it is too late. How are you fixed, Jeffrey?

Of course, we could offer up Conrad Black, aka inmate 18330-424 at Federal
Correctional Institution Coleman Low, central Florida. His release date on the
Federal Bureau of Prisons website is October 30 2013. He may as well pass the
time in a good cause. In 2000, addressing the Nixon Centre, in Washington, he
said: "There is no credible version of Euro integration that does not involve a
massive transfer of authority from Westminster, which has served Britain
reasonably satisfactorily for centuries, to the institutions of Brussels and
Strasbourg, which are, by Anglo-American standards, rather undemocratic and
inefficient." That's a martyrdom mission statement right there. Jeffrey should
get in touch.

She may not like the Proms - even if Gordon does - but you'll not hear any
criticisms of the new citizenship tests from culture minister Margaret Hodge.
She has been there, done that. She likes them. "I experienced the 'cultural
test' when my father set about seeking British citizenship," she told the
Institute of Public Policy Research yesterday. "An inspector came to our house
for tea to interrogate me and my seven-year-old sister and assess our
'Britishness'. Tea usually consisted of a boiled egg and fingers of toast. But
on that occasion we were made to eat cucumber sandwiches and fruit cake under
strict instructions to say that that was what we always had." Probably all she
has eaten since.

She is, of course, the Labour MP for Barking in east London, where the far-right
BNP claims to be fighting for more housing for local people. They must be the
right kind of properties, mind. And the right kind of people. "Why have they got
en suite in the bedrooms," complained local BNP leader Richard Barnbrook,
commenting on a recent planning application. "This is Barking and Dagenham, not
Richmond." And why are they building at all? "I've been studying the birth and
death rates and the borough population is falling," he added. Then his
supporters went off to deliver leaflets promoting his "campaigning for more
council houses". In his strange world, it all made sense.

Last week we applauded Tesco - as far as we felt able - for the diligence of its
online service in delivering a single brussels sprout to a customer who ordered
it by mistake. Now we hear from reader Margaret Gooch who tells us she tried to
buy 2lb of Jer sey Royal potatoes from Sainsbury's online service but ended up,
after a slip of the mouse, with two "tiny Jersey Royal potatoes", wrapped,
weighed, priced and delivered to her doorstep. We've seen the ads. Every little
helps. But surely there are limits.

And finally, who can truly assess the baleful effect that the classic series
Life on Mars has had on British policing. In DCI Gene Hunt's smoking and sexism,
not to mention his rough and ready approach to suspects' rights, we have
entertainment it is true - but we also have the most unfortunate kind of
template. By contrast, within West Midlands police headquarters one was recently
able to secure promotional material for Birmingham's first men's grooming
centre, providing facials, de-stress, manicures, hair removal and tanning. None
of this provides an absolute guarantee that officers won't overstep the mark.
For that we rely on legislation. But it must be the case that men who have had a
pedicure seldom want to.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            March 5, 2008 Wednesday

Political briefing: All is not lost for new leader

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 561 words


These are difficult times for Nick Clegg, the third Liberal Democrat leader in
two years, not counting Vince Cable, the leader they never had, but should have
done. Limp in the polls and divided over Europe, he faces his first party spring
conference in the hot seat this weekend in Liverpool.

But all is not lost. At Westminster yesterday the Lib Dem leadership finally
forced a complicated procedural vote on their demand for a straight "in or out"
referendum on British membership of the EU, the issue on which they staged a
mini walkout last week.

It was defeated as resoundingly as it was when last debated in December, by 471
votes to 68: a figleaf to cover their internal split over Europe, "drowning not
waving", as William Hague suggested. The good news was that the manouevre was
too complex to warrant serious airtime on the TV evening news.

Clegg can change all that tonight if he decides to sack any of his 63 MPs still
determined to defy instructions via a three-line whip to abstain on the narrower
Tory version of a referendum, one on the Lisbon treaty now passing through the
Commons.

All three main parties are split, so David Cameron's amendment will also be
defeated. Polls routinely suggest voters - Lib Dems included - want such a
ballot, though actual ballots are poorly supported because Europe is unloved but
a low priority for most people. Sensible Lib Dem MPs seem agreed that Clegg is
smart enough to turn a blind eye to any defiance by frontbench MPs such as David
Heath, Alistair Carmichael or Nick Harvey (who last night fell back into line).
Sacking anyone would guarantee a negative spot on the TV bulletins. "Split" is a
word everyone understands.

It all seems a muddle, albeit not of the new leader's making. Charles Kennedy,
leader until 2006, was bounced into promising a referendum on the aborted EU
constitution. So was Tony Blair. And it was Sir Menzies Campbell who decided the
Lisbon treaty was not a constitution and that his party would therefore abstain
on the Lisbon vote when it came. It does tonight.

Clegg is under no threat. Some colleagues disliked last week's walkout, but they
like his style, his brains and good humour. They also point out that an "in or
out" referendum may be mocked at Westminster, but plays well on the doorstep.

"Voters who are obsessed with Europe like it because most of them are keen to
vote No even though they'd probably lose. The Tories are using all sorts of
dog-whistle tactics to win back these voters (from Ukip) but everyone knows the
Tory leadership wants to stay in Europe," says one.

Clegg's real problem is the familiar two-party squeeze. His party prospered when
it had a distinctive tax policy, the extra 1p on standard rate to improve
education, which Cable persuaded Kennedy to drop. It also had Iraq, equally
brave in its way and a potent unique selling point during the Blair years.

Both have lost their potency. The Lib Dems have a creditable civil liberties
record and are also a useful quarry for good green ideas which rival parties
pinch. They still need a new USP which can protect those 63 seats. Tory
strategists are very keen to oust them south and west of the Thames.

Some hanker for a hung parliament in 2009-10, but hard-nosed Lib Dems and Tories
rule out a coalition with either bigger rival. How about a return to Kennedy's
"anti-politics populism", some Lib Dems ask.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            March 5, 2008 Wednesday

Clegg faces first big test with revolt over Europe: Frontbench defiance on
treaty is his first crisis: Brown also faces rebellion over referendum

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 637 words


Nick Clegg will face his first crisis as leader of the Liberal Democrats tonight
when a group of frontbenchers vote in favour of a referendum on the EU treaty,
in defiance of his instructions. The Lib Dem leader spoke with frontbenchers to
try and win round the rebels who insist they must support a referendum to live
up to their commitment in the party's 2005 general election manifesto to support
a poll on the EU constitution. Clegg insists the Lisbon treaty is not the same
as the constitution because it amends, rather than replaces, existing EU
treaties.

Gordon Brown will also face a Labour rebellion tonight when up to 30 MPs vote
for a referendum. Rebels say their numbers could increase if a vote is held on a
backbench Labour amendment, rather than a Tory one.

While Brown will face the biggest rebellion of the night, attention will focus
on Clegg because Lib Dem frontbenchers are prepared to defy his leadership.

David Heath, the justice spokesman, is the most high-profile frontbencher who
will vote for a referendum, in defiance of Clegg's instructions to his MPs to
abstain. Clegg has put down a three-line whip, which means it is mandatory for
his MPs to support him.

There were signs last night that other frontbenchers were prepared to fall into
line. Nick Harvey, the defence spokesman, is not planning to rebel.

The Lib Dem frontbenchers are prepared to defy Clegg because they are under
pressure from Tory and Ukip candidates - particularly in the west country - who
will hound them if they fail to support a ref erendum. Heath is MP for Somerton
and Frome and Harvey for North Devon.

The rebellion will put Clegg in a difficult position as he faces criticism for
the way in which he has handled the EU treaty. Party leaders usually sack
frontbenchers if they fail to support a three-line whip. But a large frontbench
rebellion might make that difficult for Clegg.

Critics on the frontbench believe he has brought the crisis on himself in the
way he has unsuccessfully tried to secure a separate referendum on whether
Britain should remain a member of the EU. Clegg led a walkout of his MPs last
week when a Lib Dem amendment on this was refused by the Speaker. When Clegg
walked out two of the rebel MPs stayed behind - Heath and Richard Younger-Ross.

Sir Menzies Campbell, the former Lib Dem leader, is privately critical of the
walkout which he regarded as childish. Critics do not understand why Clegg was
so attached to the vote on the "in or out" referendum, which he knew he would
not secure, when the Commons voted on the idea last year.

The Lib Dems tried once again yesterday to have another Commons vote on their
referendum idea. But this was rejected, prompting Clegg to criticise parliament
for being out of date. "Today's result simply confirms the determination of
Labour and Conservative MPs to deny the people of Britain a real say over our
future in Europe," he said.

"The Westminster establishment is terrified of an open public debate over the
EU, but the fact is that nobody under the age of 50 has been able to have their
say on this crucial issue."

David Cameron has tabled an amendment calling for a referendum which is unlikely
to attract many Labour rebels, who would not want to vote with the Tories. But
the number of Labour rebels will increase if an amendment to the treaty tabled
by the Labour MP, Ian Davidson, is called. Cameron is happy to lay his aside if
Davidson's one is called.

Cameron stepped up the pressure on Clegg last night when he called on Lib Dem
rebels to vote with him. "I hope we can win this vote in the House of Commons,"
he said. "A lot of this depends on whether Liberal Democrat MPs keep the word
they gave to their constituents. All of them stood on a very clear manifesto
promise to have a referendum on the European constitution."

guardian.co.uk/politics

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 5, 2008 Wednesday 4:55 PM GMT

More secrecy from Brussels on expenses

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1033 words


There will be another twist in the saga of the European Parliament's gravy train
in the newspaper on Wednesday. In the meantime, here is the latest on that
secret audit on staff allowances.

The European Parliament couldn't get less transparent

First a mental health warning: Stop reading now if you cannot bear any more
madness from inside the European Union machine.

For the last week and a half (hotly denied) rumours have been doing the rounds
in Brussels over whether the Parliament's Secretary General, a powerful and
secretive bureaucrat called Harald Rmer, was in possession of papers linking
dodgy allowances to names.

Just to recap, a secret internal audit by the Parliament's auditor, a man called
Robert Galvin, found widespread problems with the payments of Euro-MP
allowances, expenses that are worth an aggregate 100 million every year. This
report prompted MEPs, such as Chris Davies, to cry fraud. After The Daily
Telegraph broke the story the audit was passed to Olaf, the EU's anti-fraud
squad, l'Office europen de lutte anti-fraude.

Paul van Buitenen, a Dutch Green Euro-MP and a former European Commission
whistleblower, has just published details of the secret audit report.

He gives a number of examples. There is one case of payment of full allowance,
worth 125,000 to a service provider with only one accredited assistant to the
MEP.

There are two cases of payment of full allowance to a service provider with no
accredited assistants. There is a case of payment of allowance to a company with
no activity shown in annual accounts. He confirms examples of payments of
allowances to service providers with irrelevant activities, such as the
provision of child care and the trading of wood.

"I think the findings in this report show that there is ample opportunity for
abuse," Mr van Buitenen concludes.

Some MEPs have been wondering if more details, either a second report or audit
papers, existed with details of this kind of wrongdoing by individuals - papers
that the Parliament would be under a legal duty to pass to Olaf. Nigel Farage,
leader of the UK Independence Party, is so concerned that he wrote this letter
to Hans-Gert Pttering, the Parliament's President (extracts below).

"As Head of Unit in the internal audit department Mr Galvin conducted his study
into a randomly selected group of 160 plus (payments). The report makes plain
that there are severe discrepancies amongst the accounts of some of that number.
Mr Galvin, in the course of his duties has become aware of the specific
individuals involved whose behaviour gives 'rise to a presumption of the
existence of possible illegal activity'.

"He is therefore obliged to tell his immediate superior or the Secretary
General. In doing so he would have clearly complied with the spirit of the
regulations.

"However if OLAF are not currently informed of the specific individuals then we
can only presume that the Secretary General has failed to forward the names to
OLAF.

"In which case the Secretary General himself would be in breach of the
regulations as they demand that he should, 'without delay inform either his
immediate superior' (...) or the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) direct'.

(...) "I demand that an investigation take place into the conduct of the
Secretary General and, if he is found to be in breach of the rules, that he be
removed from his post as unfit to hold such office."

A European Parliament spokesman rejected the claims and any suggestion that
names of Euro-MPs abusing their allowances were given to Mr Rmer.

"The internal auditor's report looking into the system of payments to MEPs'
assistants did not link problems identified with individual MEPs."

"There is only one final version (of the audit, my note) ; there are definitely
not two versions for different audiences."

I tried to find out more. I asked: Are there were any working papers, or any
kind of notes or dossiers containing information linking abuse of allowances to
individuals? I also enquired as to whether the internal audit had found no
indications of fraud or misuse.

The reply is interesting, it rejects any suggestion that Mr Rmer, or any other
Parliament official, is withholding information by redefining the problem, away
from fraud or misuse of funds to a purely technical issue, notwithstanding some
of the problems revealed by Mr Van Buitenen.

"What you need to realise is, I think, that fraud means a clear breach of the
rules. Wherever the internal auditor has found strong indications of such a
breach, he has referred the case to OLAF," said the official spokesman.

"The audit was never intended to be a bill of health; it was intended to analyse
the system and possibly make recommendations. This is exactly what the internal
auditor has done. His conclusion was that the system is too complex and not
sufficiently verifiable. (My emphasis) He has made recommendations accordingly.
And the Secretary-General is considering the possibility of proposing to
Parliament's authorities to replace the present system by a single system
managed entirely by the services of Parliament."

This answer means that despite the expenditure of large sums of public cash
being "unverifiable" there is no need for action. This is up to the Parliament
to decide. Can we check? No. We must trust the Parliament on this because the
report is secret. If the Parliament says there is no fraud then there isn't any.
As to reform, well, do not hold your breath.

Should anybody wish to discuss this matter further, with Mr Rmer perhaps, well
that is tough luck too. Here is the reply to an interview request, to discuss
these matters,by from one of my Danish colleagues (Mr Rmer is a Dane): "Mr Rmer
is not in the habit of giving interviews and he has said he doesn't want to
change this habit."

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 18 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             March 2, 2008, Sunday

£250,000 NICE WORK IF EU CAN GET IT!;
 MEPS SHOCKING GRAVY TRAIN EXPOSED BY THE PEOPLE BRUSSELS GREED

BYLINE: BY TOM LATCHEM

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 250 words

HIGHLIGHT: CHEERS: Our man Tom savours MEP life Pictures: JUHA ROININEN


THE great Euro gravy train now means some greedy MEPs can easily rake in
£250,000 a year - while enjoying a range of freebies, discounts and perks.

As expenses at Westminster come under scrutiny, The People can reveal MPs are
amateurs in the freeloading stakes compared to their Brussels counterparts.

With wages in Britain averaging £25,000 a year, MEPs can earn TEN TIMES that for
leading a life of Riley. They can legally claim: up to £84,000 in salaries.

£185 a day just for just turning up to work.

£2,800 a month to pay newspaper and phone bills.

£125,000 a year for secretarial work which can be done by family members.

£4,000 a year to visit other member states, and

£3,500 to travel outside the EU on "working trips".

MEPs also ride in chauffeur driven cars, dine in the finest restaurants and
guzzle Champagne paid for by lobbyists.

A whistleblower, Austrian MEP Hans-Peter Martin, revealed how one Italian MEP
reportedly jets in to collect his travel expenses and daily cash, before turning
round and catching the same plane home. Tory MEP Robert Goodwill was rapped in
March 2000 for claiming £500 for a flight even though he'd spent about £250 on
an economy seat.

UKIP leader and MEP Nick Farage fumed: "The gravy train is a disgrace - MEPs are
paid far too much and the monitoring of claiming expenses is a shambles."

I spent a day in the life of an MEP with my snout in the trough...

tom.latchem@people.co.uk

We Say: Page 16

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.

                               17 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              March 2, 2008 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fiddlers under the roof

BYLINE: Neil Hamilton

SECTION: COLUMNS; 31

LENGTH: 599  words


PROMPTED BY protesters against a third runway at Heathrow unfurling banners on
the House of Commons' roof, Gordon Broon announced: "Decisions in this country
should be made in the Chamber of this House, not on the roof." If only! Sadly,
it was j ust the usual spin.

If Broon is so concerned about Parliament's supremacy, why is he determined to
transfer yet more power from Westminster to Brussels? He knows that we, the
people, agree that "decisions in this country should be made in the Chamber of
this House" and we don't want them made by unelected Eurocrats. So why is he
ramming this unwanted European Constitution through Parliament?

What's a few MPs fiddling their expenses when the Prime Minister is guilty of
far greater contempt for the House and the country? Because he knows he would
lose, he tells brazen lies to justify breaking his election promise of a
referendum on the EU Constitution, further w eakening Parliament's powers.

The House of Commons is increasingly just a picturesque tourist attraction. In
the Lisbon Treaty, Mr Broon has surrendered our veto in at least 40 new policy
areas, including foreign policy, defence, energy and the budget. At least 75 per
cent of all our laws are now made in Brussels behind closed doors. If you think
this is all highfalutin' constitutional theory, think again.

Just take a few topical examples.

Y ou can't sell a house now without a useless Home Information Pack costing
several hundred pounds.

A lmost every housing expert wants to abolish them. But we can't because an EU
directive requires every house sold to have an "energy performance certificate"
to combat "global warming".

Again, take our complicated new postage system, making large envelopes more
expensive than small ones weighing the same. This was dictated by an EU postal
directive.

More dramatically, why have our troops been sent to Iraq and Afghanistan
inadequately equipped, some even having to buy their own boots? Partly because
the EU now has its own foreign policy. As a result, a significant part of our
defence budget has been diverted to fund the EU's rapid reaction force, cobbled
together to fight the EU's imaginary wars of the future. But the cash would be
better spent on our troops on the front line now.

The worst feature of the Lisbon Treaty is that it abolishes the need to consult
either Parliament or the people ever again. Future constitutional changes can be
made just by backstairs amendments. The trouble with consulting the people is
that they have a nasty habit of voting to halt the Euro-juggernaut. The Danes,
French and Dutch, having voted "no" in referendums, were just told to vote again
- and keep on voting until they got it "right". That is, when they did what the
Eurocrats wanted.

AFTER LISBON, such embarrassments will no longer be possible. If Parliament
votes this anti-democratic treaty through, MPs will have voted in a suicide
pact. The EU will make most of our laws in Brussels and MPs might just as well
vacate the Chamber and join other protesters on the roof.

Both Labour and the Liberal Democrats promised a referendum.

Both have broken their promise.

They also shamelessly lie to justify their dishonesty. The Tories do oppose the
treaty and still demand a referendum. But they baulk at threatening an EU crisis
by promising, if they win the next general election, to hold a referendum and
repeal the treaty if the British people vote "no".

Why does only Ukip have the courage of its convictions? Why will none of the
major parties implement Broon's principle - "decisions in this country should be
made in the Chamber of this House"?

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ON A HIGH: One of Plane Stupid activists protesting on the roof of the
Houses of Parliament over plans for a third runway at Heathrow

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 1, 2008 Saturday 3:32 AM GMT

Let

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 467 words


Full coverage of UK politics                       Nick Clegg has done us all a
favour. In order to cover his retreat from the promise of a referendum on the
European Constitution, he hit on what must at the time have seemed a clever
wheeze: he would instead call for a referendum on EU membership. Clegg well knew
that there was no chance of getting such a vote. But demanding one would allow
the Lib Dems to claim that they wanted to let the people decide.

Nick Clegg: clever wheeze

His action will have one lasting consequence. Cleggie has suddenly made it
respectable to debate the merits of withdrawal from the EU. For years,
Euro-enthusiasts have sought to avoid a detailed discussion of the subject.
Mention our trade deficit with the EU (Britain is in surplus with every
continent except Europe), our budget contributions or the vitiation of our
democracy, or mention the rude prosperity of Europe's non-members, such as
Switzerland and Norway, and the reply is usually along the lines of: "Xenophobe!
Extremist! Anti-European!"

For a long time, the secessionist case was presented by newspapers and, more
especially, the BBC, as a fringe position not even worth considering. But now
that the BBC's party of choice is demanding a national debate on the subject, it
will be far harder to avoid one. And, once that debate gets underway, the
paucity of arguments for staying in  or, at least, for remaining part of what
the EU is turning into  will become hard to disguise.

There was a neat demonstration of this in a BBC head-to-head between Nigel
Farage, the UKIP capo, and Charles Kennedy, one of the recent Lib Dem leaders.
Farage opened service, arguing that an independent Britain would be wealthier,
that it would be able to negotiate free trade accords with other countries
instead of being bound by Euro-protectionism, that it would be spared its annual
tribute to Brussels (enough to abolish inheritance tax, capital gains tax and
stamp duty) and that, of course, its democracy would be restored.

OK, Charles Kennedy, what are the arguments for staying in, asked the presenter.
At which point, Kennedy launched into a maudlin lament about what a depressing
time this was for pro-Europeans, because no one was putting the arguments.

Now to be fair, there are probably better advocates of the EU than Kennedy. But
I am still waiting to hear a convincing case.

So, my Euro-phile friends, the comment thread is open. Let's hear some decent,
well-sourced, specific arguments in favour of EU membership. No airy
generalizations, please. No fibs about how the EU is "coming our way". What I
want is a simple case for why we should be part of the EU that actually exists.
Over to you.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
