
                               1 of 16 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                             August 31, 2008 Sunday
                                   FB Edition

So, who'll have the last laugh?;
BLACK DOG

SECTION: Pg. 28

LENGTH: 485 words


DAVID CAMERON gushes about John McCain in a new biography of the Tory leader by
GQ editor and Mail on Sunday columnist Dylan Jones. Hed make a great President,
Im a huge fan...hes enormously attractive, plain speaking...terrific fun, strong
convictions, I like him.

But he derides Barack Obamas flowery speeches: All that brotherhood of man stuff
is great but tell us what youre going to do. Obama has a wonderful way with
words but, in Britain, thered be howls of laughter.

Eggs and baskets come to mind, Dave.

EX-BBC political hack John Sergeant, who is in the new series of Strictly Come
Dancing, was renowned for his compassion towards less confident colleagues at
the Beeb. When nice but nervy Robin Oakley beat him to the job of BBC political
editor, then froze live on air, Sergy reportedly rushed to comfort him: Dont
worry Robin, all of us have...so nearly done what you just did.

LABOUR Deputy Whip Nick Browns strange foray into foreign policy, warning that
letting Georgia join Nato could spark war with Russia, baffled Westminster.
However, it was music to the ears of world-famous Russian conductor Valery
Gergiev, an ethnic Ossetian who is fervently proPutin. Bizarrely, opera
buff-cum-Labour bruiser Brown and Gergiev are pals and met up at the Edinburgh
Festival.

Could be a case of the writing on the Wall-E

HOLIDAYMAKERS in Lowestoft reported seeing a carefree dad with his young son at
a local cinema for a screening of the childrens animated

film Wall-E. It was Gordon Brown and his lad John, four, who were staying in
nearby

Southwold. They looked blissfully happy, said an onlooker. If only more people
could see this side of the Prime Minister. Wall-E is about a robot, left, that
saves mankind. Gord-B will settle for surviving next months Labour conference.

MEMBERS of the National Youth Theatre in Beijing to perform The Merchant Of
Venice were stunned when Boris Johnson dropped in during the Olympics. He told
them he had played Tubal, a friend of Shylock, in a student production of the
play and, brainy show-off that he is, recited his lines centre-stage: I often
came where I did hear of her, but cannot find her... One of them showed me a
ring that he had of your daughter for a monkey etc. Indeed.

Show prudence, Colin!

GORDON BROWN and British Olympic Association chairman, former Tory Minister Lord
Colin Moynihan, had a curious exchange in the Beijing HQ of the British Olympic
team after the closing ceremony of the Games. As the champagne flowed and
athletes and officials danced the night away, the PMs parting shot to the
pint-sized peer was: Dont drink too much.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage is all The Guardians Polly Toynbee despises: a
Right-wing, chauvinistic Little Englander. So shell choke on her muesli to
discover this years UKIP rally in Bournemouth is sponsored by the British
Humanist Association of which shes president. Dog is relishing the Polly and
Nigel seaside love-in.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             August 29, 2008 Friday

Double take?

BYLINE: EDITED BY JONATHAN RUSSELL

SECTION: CITY; DIARY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 51  words


HOW much do Russian president Dmitry Anatolyevich Medvedev and United Kingdom
Independence Party leader Nigel Paul Farage have in common? Nationalistic?
Anti-European? In the process of trying to take over Europe? Well, perhaps not.
But crikey, they don't half look the same.

jonathan.russell@telegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            August 28, 2008 Thursday

Reply Letters and emails: Carry on camping

BYLINE: Nigel P Farage, MEP

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 72 words


* George Monbiot is right to compare the EU's fishery deals in Africa with
colonial exploitation (Rich countries once used gunboats to seize food, August
26). I have campaigned hard in an attempt to discourage the EU's "parliament"
from approving such deals. However, despite evidence of the environmental and
social damage, Labour, Tory and Lib Dem MEPs continue to support them. Why?

Nigel P Farage MEP

Leader, UK Independence party

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            August 28, 2008 Thursday

Tory blogger

BYLINE: Katherine Bergen

SECTION: THE WHIP

LENGTH: 50 words


TORY blogger Iain Dale has spotted the eerie physical similarity between real
ale-loving anti-European UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage, left, and
power-hungry Russian President Dmitri Medvedev, right. One of the comments on
Dale's blog adds: "Medvedev wants to be free of the EU. So does Nigel."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 16 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            August 23, 2008 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EUROPE BIDS TO HIJACK OUR MEDALS

BYLINE: By Jason Groves POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 607  words


BRITAIN'S Olympic heroes could be forced to compete under the European flag at
London 2012.

A group funded by the European Commission wants to see Team GB replaced with a
single European Olympic squad.

As the Queen congratulated the team on Britain's best Olympic performance in a
century, it emerged that our athletes could even be asked to hand over their
medals for display in the office of the EU President, a post currently held by
French leader Nicolas Sarkozy.

The controversial plans have been drawn up by the Young European Federalists, a
35,000-strong organisation that has received hundreds of thousands of pounds in
grants from the EC.

The Brussels-based organisation argues that a single European team would lead
the medals table and help people to feel more like European citizens.

It says the move would also help to "combat nationalism that is always very fast
in spreading on these sporting occasions".

British athletes would be forced to compete under the EU flag and the EU anthem
would replace God Save The Queen at medal ceremonies.

But critics last night warned that patriotic Britons might refuse to take part.
Shadow Europe Minister Mark Francois said: "Britain's amazing athletes have
shown us how Britain can be one of the best in sport. The German, French,
Italian and Dutch teams have all done well too. It is bonkers to claim that all
our countries' athletes would do better if they were put into one team and made
to compete under an EU flag.

"Why on earth is the European Commission lavishing taxpayers' money on these
Euro-federalists to come up with nutty ideas like this?

"Their funding should be scrapped and put to better use. Giving it back to
European countries to help their sportsmen is one option that springs to mind."
A Team GB official in Beijing said: "This is a very cruel thing to foist upon
our wonderful athletes who have so proudly flown the flag here.

"Team GB means Great Britain.

On 19 occasions the Union Flag has been flown at the top of the pole and they
have been very proud moments for all the athletes. I think this notion that we
all get together and fly the EU flag is ridiculous. There are 27 countries
joined at the hip under the EU, but we have all got our individual freedoms to
represent our nations at the Olympic Games." The Young European Federalists
wield influence in Brussels. Several of its former members are MEPs and its
British arm, known as the Young European Movement, has the former Liberal
Democrat leader Charles Kennedy as its president.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "At the heart of all
this is the simple fact that these people want to create a single country called
Europe.

"Our Westminster politicians try to pretend otherwise, but ideas like this let
the cat out of the bag." Last night the Queen congratulated British and
Commonwealth athletes on their success.

She said: "Like so many people around the world, I have followed their
endeavours with great interest and admiration.

"The golden triumphs of the present British team can only serve as further
inspiration to those who will be working hard over the next four years to make
the London Games a shining example of Olympic success." London Mayor Boris
Johnson, who will receive the Olympic torch at the closing ceremony today,
yesterday pledged the 2012 Games would not break the GBP 9.3billion budget.

Meanwhile, Gordon Brown last night gave the strongest hint yet that our Beijing
athletes will be honoured.

The Prime Minister said: "It is not for me to make these decisions but there
have been such spectacular successes that the honours system is bound to
recognise them and will do."

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 16 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            August 23, 2008 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Brown creates buzz in Beijing;
CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JASON GROVES

SECTION: COLUMNS; 27

LENGTH: 486  words


NEVER work with animals or children, goes the TV presenters' mantra. Or Gordon
Brown, Chinese presenters might have added grimly yesterday after an attempt to
interview Britain's gaffe-prone Prime Minister descended into farce.

The apparently sedate grounds of the British ambassador's residence in Beijing
looked peaceful enough but as soon as the cameras began to roll, a noisy chorus
of cicadas struck up, prompting an even louder outburst of bird squawks, which
left sound engineers scrabbling to catch Mr Brown's words. As the wildlife died
down a helicopter began a series of low loops overhead, which completely drowned
out the Prime Minister.

When things finally quietened down a large wasp began circling Mr Brown's head.
The PM ploughed on gamely but the harassed presenter could take no more and
swatted the insect with his clipboard.

BORIS JOHNSON found himself unusually lost for words when asked by Total
Politics magazine to name the six guests needed for the perfect dinner party.

"Oh yes, this is easy, " he began. "Scarlett Johansson.

Um Scarlett Johansson.

Um. You know. Um. Can we stop with her? Um.

Pericles  Scarlett Johansson, Pericles and Shakespeare." Talk about a one-track
mind!

TIMES may be hard but there is little sign of belt-tightening in Whitehall,
where an advert has been placed for a wine expert to advise on the "maintenance
of an appropriate standard of wine for use at Government functions". The job is
unpaid but offers "reasonable" expenses along with four free wine-tasting
sessions a year. Bottoms up!

BARACK OBAMA'S decision to name Senator Joe Biden (left) as his running mate
yesterday provides proof that America is still the land of opportunity.

Where else would a politician get a second chance after admitting to
plagiarising a speech by our own Welsh windbag, Neil Kinnock?

THE partial collapse of the European Parliament's building in Strasbourg was
greeted with glee last week by British Eurosceptics, who have long argued it
should be closed. A closer inspection reveals they had a lucky escape. "The
masonry fell on the exact spot where we sit, " says Ukip leader Nigel Farage.

"Perhaps they are trying to tell us something."

DAVID CAMERON'S favourite think-tank Policy Exchange caused a stink last week
with a report saying the North should be abandoned. Author Tim Leunig admits it
was provocative but says he was still taken aback by the string of abusive
e-mails he received. One threatened to set him on fire if he showed his face in
Liverpool, while others poked fun at his looks.

"There are a few comments on Facebook saying I should have gone to Specsavers, "
he says. "I bought my glasses in 1990 and they are not that fashionable but I
don't care."

THE maverick former Labour MP Leo Abse, who died last week, had little time for
New Labour. On being told that Tony Blair had named his youngest son Leo, he
declared: "He has stolen my party, now he has stolen my name."

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                August 17, 2008

Comment: The race to be the fourth party matters more than you think:
Westminster is not about to be taken over by environmentalists or fascists. But
the Greens versus BNP is of great significance

BYLINE: Rafael Behr

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1391 words


Fans of football teams with no hope of winning the league get their thrills from
derbies or the occasional giant killing in the early rounds of the FA Cup. In
politics, the top prizes are sewn up even more tidily than the Premier League.
At Westminster, Labour and the Tories fight over first place, while the Liberal
Democrats creatively explore different ways to come third.

A new season is about to get under way and, while no one can rule out a
spectacular upset, it looks as if Team Cameron has the title in the bag.

Scotland and Wales have their own nationalist dynamics, of course. But in
England, too, there is action away from the centre that, like a good mid-table
clash, makes for compelling viewing, even though less is ostensibly at stake.
The prize is fourth place and two parties - the Greens and the BNP - are in
contention.

In London's mayoral election, the Green candidate Sian Berry comfortably beat
the BNP's Richard Barnbrook by 409,101 votes to 198,319. The Greens also kept
the BNP in fifth place in the ballot for the London Assembly, taking two seats
to the BNP's one. Meanwhile, the far right beat the environmentalists in four
out of 14 Assembly constituencies. Nationally, at local council level, the
Greens are just ahead of the BNP - 47 seats to 37 - though the far right made
twice as many gains as the Greens in May's elections. In June's Henley
byelection, 73 votes separated the Greens and the BNP in third and fourth
places. Labour came fifth.

So what? First past the post makes it impossible for tiny parties to break
through and, with around 1 per cent of the national vote each, these minnows
would struggle under any voting system. Westminster is not about to be overrun
by hippies or fascists.

But the Green versus BNP competition matters. For a start, if a party dedicated
to saving the 'traditional British genotype' from 'extinction' by mixed-race
marriages gets roughly as many votes as a party dedicated to saving the planet
from climate change, something is wrong.

Of course, the Greens have had their issue poached by the big three, while the
far right has anti-miscegenation policy all to itself. But fringe parties don't
compete with the mainstream in the usual way. If voters are simply shopping
around for a party that sounds tough on immigration, for example, they could
vote Tory or, for that matter, Labour, which has tacked steadily rightwards on
the issue in recent years. The point of the BNP is that they see everything -
housing, the economy, crime - through the prism of race. When mainstream
politicians talk about immigration as a problem, the potential BNP voter takes
it as confirmation of his fears, while retaining the suspicion that the
Establishment won't do anything about it. Green voters feel similarly about
their cause. Labour and Tory pledges on the environment are seen as empty
rhetoric. (The crucial difference is that the Greens' cause is a good one.)

A fringe party represents people who meet two criteria. First, they deeply
distrust the three main players, seeing them as out of touch, dishonest and
incapable of addressing some issue that matters to them above all others.
Second, they bother to vote. Think of the Greens and the BNP competing to lead
the political wing of British cynicism. Clearly, that is another reason why we
should care which of them does better.

That cynicism thrives when people feel alienated from a distant ruling class,
believing that, for all their professed differences, the main parties are
basically 'all the same'. That is not a difficult proposition to sell at the
moment.

The great truism of English politics is that elections are won on the centre
ground. Tony Blair held it for 10 years, now David Cameron claims it. A big
argument these days amounts to the whether there should be more academy schools
or loads more academy schools? Should the NHS be opened up to 'competition' or
just 'contestability'?

And that is the concrete stuff. In the absence of competing policies, a bizarre
battle has erupted for possession of abstract nouns. Immigration Minister Liam
Byrne, often dubbed a 'rising star' of the Labour party (can stars rise when the
sky is fall ing?), wrote an article last week rubbishing David Cameron's claim
to the idea of 'fraternity'. The Tories, meanwhile, in a bid to undermine a
Gordon Brown comeback in the autumn, are campaigning this week on the issue of
'fairness', the Prime Minister's new favourite word after he lost 'prudence' to
the credit crunch.

All this posturing is based on evidence that the voting public, as it showed by
rejecting the Tories in their angry, sulking years, likes moderation. But that
doesn't tell you anything about the non-voting public. More people abstained in
both of the last two general elections than endorsed the winning side.

That might be because we are a nation of sloths who only bother to choose
between candidates if they are up for eviction via premium-rate phone line. But
it is also because political debate has become so arcane and is getting worse.
Is David Miliband Blairite, post-Blairite or Blair-lite? To people with better
things to do than read think-tank pamphlets all day, the difference is not
obvious.

All parties are in the centre, but with no clear direction of travel. Their
political compasses are liable to be influenced by whichever fringe manages to
exert the strongest magnetic pull. That gives influence to a maverick fourth
party, especially when one of the big three is lost in the wilderness. When the
Tories were in disarray, they were further destabilised by the UK Independence
party. The presence of a militant anti-Europe wing over the past decade
successfully skewed mainstream politics. England now has a fixed Eurosceptic
bias.

Ukip looks like a spent force. It didn't achieve withdrawal from the EU, but
helped to shape the debate. The same process could affect the way mainstream
parties talk about the environment or immigration, depending on how the Greens
and the BNP perform.

The BNP's recent local election results were surprisingly good given that the
party is in schism. Last year, a 'Real BNP' faction formed in rebellion against
party leader Nick Griffin, who is accused of failing to modernise, being
'arrogant' (just like in ordinary politics) and deploying the 'security
department' of the party to burgle rebel members' homes (not so like ordinary
politics). Richard Barnbrook, who, as a London Assembly member, is the BNP's
highest elected official, has a different challenge building a substantial far
right following. He has to live down HMS Discovery: A Love Story , a film he
made in 1989 that includes scenes of naked men frolicking and a soundtrack of
apparently gay erotic poetry. 'It was an art film, end of story. Not a bloody
porn film,' he says.

For the Greens, the problem has not been too many leaders, but none at all. They
have traditionally been led by two 'principal speakers' mandated to represent
the party in public, but not decide policy. That will change next month when
they hold their first leadership election, which is almost certain to be won by
MEP Caroline Lucas. She is intelligent and articulate. Griffin just about
manages louche charisma.

The question is: which of them would we rather see hogging the airwaves on
election night? Both parties are hoping to gain their first Westminster seat at
the next election - the Greens in Brighton Pavilion, the BNP in the new east
London constituency of Dagenham and Rainham. Both need the votes of disgruntled
Labour supporters to win. If, as looks likely, the Tories are cruising towards
an easy victory, disproportionate attention will be paid to the impact of
wild-card candidates. (Remember a foaming Jimmy Goldsmith taunting David Mellor
out of his seat in 1997?) As Labour heads into the wilderness, there will be
much opining on what the protest vote meant.

Everyone takes some interest in who tops the political Premier League. After
all, the winner gets to run the country. But there are rewards available lower
down the table. There is a nail-biting competition for the Uefa Cup place of
English politics - the opportunity to give political shape to much wider
scepticism and disillusionment; to be the flag-bearer for anti-Establishment
feeling. Our nation would be in a sorry state if the BNP beat the Greens to that
prize.

Andrew Rawnsley is away


LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            August 14, 2008 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Brown loses a friend - and faces another dauntingScottish by-election

BYLINE: Nigel Morris Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 617 words


GORDON BROWN faces a daunting by-election in his own political backyard
following the death yesterday of a Labour MP.

John MacDougall, the 60-year-old MP for Glenrothes in Fife, died after a
two-year battle against the asbestos-related lung cancer, mesothelioma.

The Prime Minister, who visited Mr MacDougall in hospital earlier this week, led
the tributes to a "good personal friend". Mr MacDougall's death leaves Labour
facing a difficult by-election this autumn in the constituency next door to Mr
Brown's Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath seat.

Following disastrous poll results in Glasgow East, and Crewe and Nantwich,
another defeat in a previous Labour stronghold would intensify efforts to remove
Mr Brown from No 10.

At the last election, Mr MacDougall held Glenrothes with 52 per cent of the vote
and a 10,664 majority over the Scottish National Party, which would need a swing
of 14.6 per cent to capture the seat. The SNP secured a 22 per cent swing to win
Glasgow East three weeks ago.

Labour is expected to delay the by-election until late October or even November
to enable its chosen candidate to become established in the area. But, given the
collapse of the party's popularity in Scotland, Labour knows it faces an uphill
struggle to hold on to Glenrothes. The poll will inevitably be viewed as a
referendum on the embattled Prime Minister. He will attempt to shore up his
position by setting out an economic recovery package next month and in his
speech to the party conference in Manchester.

The weakness of Labour support in Fife was underlined two years ago when the
Liberal Democrats captured Dunfermline and West Fife, also a previously safe
seat, with a swing of 16 per cent.

Mr MacDougall was a former boiler-maker who became a union shop steward and
long-serving member of Fife Council. He was elected to Parliament as an MP for
Central Fife in 2001, which became Glenrothes when the boundaries of Scotland's
parliamentary constituencies were redrawn four years later.

Mr MacDougall, who leaves a wife and two adult children, was diagnosed with
mesothelioma two years ago and had a lung removed in an attempt to treat the
condition. As his illness worsened, he was rarely seen at Westminister, but he
was summoned from his sickbed in June to vote in favour of plans to detain
terror suspects for up to 42 days. It was the first time he had voted in a
Commons division for more than six months.

The Prime Minister said last night: "John MacDougall gave more than 30 years of
distinguished public service to Fife - as a councillor, leader of the Fife
Council, convener of Fife Council and then MP for Central Fife. He will be
remembered as a true servant of the people.

"A very popular, diligent local MP, he served Fife with great distinction in all
the roles he played. Over three decades, he has been a good personal friend of
mine and I visited him on Monday."

Angus Robertson, the SNP leader at Westminster, said: "We may have been on
opposite sides in the Commons, but John carried the respect of people right
across the chamber and was passionate for the issues he believed in and the
welfare of his constituents, which he cared about deeply. He will be much
missed."

The former Liberal Democrat leader Sir Menzies Campbell, MP for the neighbouring
North-East Fife constituency, said: "[John's] courageous fight against illness
in recent times meant that Parliament was denied his shrewd interventions on so
many issues."

OBITUARY, PAGE 36

2005 result in Glenrothes

*J MacDougall (Lab)

19,395 (51.9 %)

*J Beare (SNP)

8,731 (23.4%)

*E Riches (Lib Dem)

4,728 (12.7%)

*B Don (Con)

2,651 (7.1 %)

*G Rodger (Pensioners)

716 (1.9 %)

*M Balfour (Scot Soc)

705 (1.9 %)

*P Smith (UKIP)

440 (1.2%)

*Labour majority

10,664

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 16 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            August 12, 2008 Tuesday
                                  IRE Edition

BYLINE: ISAAC BICKERSTAFFE

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 529 words


¦WHAT intrepid holidaymakers they are at The Irish Times!

As shells landed on Tbilisi airport and war expanded through the Caucasus,
Saturday's edition of the paper's soft focus travel section hit shelves across
Ireland.

'After touching down in Tbilisi in the early hours, as most visitors from
western Europe do,' wrote Daniel McLaughlin, 'a nocturnal ride into the city
plunges the new arrival into the contrasting currents that pulse through
Georgia.'

Quite.

He adds, 'Unless unrest in the north of the country escalates& it's a great
destination.'

Don't forget your sun cream, travellers cheques, and body armour.

A SURVEY detailing how our prison population voted makes interesting reading
(though why people jailed for breaking laws should be allowed select who makes
them is another matter).

Predictably, Sinn Féin reeled in about a quarter of the convict vote, but the
next placed party is a curiosity - the Greens. Hitherto, political analysts had
presumed that the core base for John Gormley and Eoin Ryan lay in the
muesli-munching liberals of the middle classes.

Mountjoy Merrion, anyone?

MARY HANAFIN has captured headlines with her courageous and imaginative work on
welfare but her travel plans have come under less scrutiny.

The minister is heading to the convention of the U.S. Democratic Party.

Barack Obama, the presumptive nominee to be crowned by America's answer to the
Labour Party, is a committed advocate of abortion.

One would have thought Minister Hanafin, pictured, whose distinction it is to
hail from a long line of stalwart opponents of abortion, would be more cautious
about any impression that she endorses a man who includes so-called partial
birth abortion among the practices he defends.

THERE is at least one upside to the torrential rain and flooding of the summer
wipe-out this year: Mr Bickerstaffe has noted a dramatic year-on-year reduction
in the number of foolish articles announcing that a decent summer means the
imminent onset of global warming.

GOVERNMENT attacks on the victorious 'No to Lisbon' campaign are growing
increasingly slapdash.

A fortnight ago, Micheál Martin attacked Open Europe for the mere act of
commissioning an opinion poll to ask Irish opinion.

Now Dick Roche alleges that Libertas maintains close links to the British
Eurosceptic party, UKIP.

Minister Roche, presuming he is paying attention, must know that this is simply
false - indeed, the group's president, Declan Ganley, pictured, went out of his
way when invited to address the prestigious Heritage Foundation in Washington
(an honour Minister Roche is unlikely ever to be accorded) to pronounce that
'Euroscepticism is dead'.

Unable to defeat Mr Ganley's argument that Europe must become more democratic,
ministers prefer to attack his character instead.

BERTIE AHERN'S office cost two-thirds of a million euro to renovate, an
impressive sum for what is, after all, only supposed to be an office rather than
a luxury apartment.

There is something fitting, though, in the fact that the office suite comes
equipped with a bathroom 10.5sq.m in size.

At the height of the property bubble he generated, Mr Ahern's Government was
presiding on the sale of flats not much larger.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 16 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            August 9, 2008 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

Britain and Ireland to share EU voice?;
Critics fear attempt to cut our influence

BYLINE: DANIEL MARTIN

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 535 words


BRITAIN would be forced to share a European Commissioner with Ireland under
plans being drawn up by France.

President Nicholas Sarkozy is looking for ways to cut the number of national
representatives in the European Commission.

But critics say it is a backdoor plan to reduce our influence in Europe, and
that it proves the EU wants to push on with the Lisbon Treaty despite its
rejection by the Irish.

At the moment, there are 27 commissioners, one for each member state - ensuring
each country has a voice at the top level of European decisionmaking.

Britain's commissioner is Peter Mandelson, the former trade minister who was
forced to resign from Tony Blair's Cabinet twice.

But President Sarkozy says 27 is too many, and has suggested that countries with
similar cultural backgrounds should be prepared to share a commissioner - citing
the UK and Ireland as an example.

This is despite the fact that Britain is one of the largest contributors to EU
coffers.

And there is no mention of France having to share, even though it has a very
similar population to the UK.

Neil O'Brien at Open Europe, the Eurosceptic think tank, said: 'It would be
barmy to try and force countries to share commissioners.

'The Irish don't want to have Peter Mandelson as their commissioner any more
than most people in Britain do.

'It is a bizarre idea to shoehorn countries into cultural groups with which they
might not feel any identification.' Philip Davies, Tory MP for Shipley, said:
'We are handing over more and more money every year, and in return they are
stripping away any remaining influence we have.

'Only a few months ago, Sarkozy was talking about the strength of the
relationship between Britain and France, and now he is pushing this idea.'
France, which now holds the rotating European presidency, says a reduction in
the number of commissioners is required because the necessity to allocate 27
jobs to appointees from each EU member is becoming unwieldy.

Government sources in Paris, quoted in the German newspaper Die Welt, said:
'Countries which share a common cultural heritage, such as Germany and Austria,
Great Britain and Ireland or the Benelux countries could share a common
commissioner.' Plans to reduce the number of commissioners were contained in the
Lisbon Treaty.

Small countries such as Ireland argue that they should be allowed to keep their
commissioner to help safeguard their influence in the EU.

Mark Francois, Tory Europe spokesman, said: 'This is clearly part of a plan to
try and bully and cajole the Irish people to have another referendum on Lisbon.'
Nigel Farage, of the UK Independence Party, said the plan was ludicrous and
'another clear example of why being in the EU does us no good'.

The idea is also being treated with suspicion in Brussels, with officials
pointing out that many EU countries which share the same language and culture
have had uncomfortable pasts.

The Foreign Office said it opposed the French plan.

But a spokesman added: 'In general, the UK supports a reduction in the number of
EU commissioners. Now that the EU has reached 27 members, we need to streamline
the Commission to ensure it can deliver against the priorities the EU needs to
tackle.' d.martin@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 16 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            August 6, 2008 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

DON'T BOOT OUT HOOKY BEG EUROPRATS

BYLINE: by CAMERON MILLAR

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 298 words


HATE preacher Abu Hamza will not face extradition to the US after meddling
Europrats let him off the hook.

One-handed Hamza was given the reprieve after he claimed the move would infringe
his human rights.

But last night critics slammed the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg,
France, for meddling in matters of British security.

The court ruled Britain could not extradite Hamza - real name Mustafa Kamal
Mustafa - until it has given "due consideration to the matter".

We revealed last month how one-eyed Hamza, 50, had lost his bid to avoid
extradition to America, where he is wanted on 11 terror charges.

But the Egyptian-born hate-preacher said he might face torture or inhuman
treatment across the pond.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, slammed the court.

He said: "It is absolutely no business o f theirs.

"They should not be sticking their nos e into affairs of our national security
an d interests.

"They cannot and should not mak e judgements into who is a threat to Britis h
national security. It is disgraceful."

And Matthew Sinclair, Policy Analyst a t the TaxPayers' Alliance said: "It is
dis - gusting that British taxpayers are going t o be forced to pay this foreign
hate preacher' s bills for years to come, while judges at th e European Court
decide if we have th e right to kick him out of our country." In a statement,
the Home Office admit - ted it was powerless to fight back. It said: "The
decision is a matte r for the European Court.

"The UK cannot extradit e Hamza while the court ha s ordered his extradition t o
be stayed." Hamza, a former imam a t London's Finsbury Par k Mosque, is
currently serv - ing seven years for solicit - ing murder and stirring u p
racial hatred.

He is accused of trying t o set up an al-Qaida trainin g camp in the US.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: APPEAL: Hamza can stay in UK

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 6, 2008 Wednesday

There are many more snakes than ladders for Brown as he tries to stay in the
game

BYLINE:  Peter Riddell

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg.16

LENGTH: 539 words


Gordon Brown faces an obstacle course over the next year that would test any
Olympic athlete. It is like an elaborate Westminster version of snakes and
ladders with many more of the former than the latter.

August Most MPs are on holiday. There will be rumbling in the bushes from
disillusioned Blairite ex-ministers, but nothing will happen. Mr Brown ends his
Suffolk holiday this week before going to Scotland and then taking a five day
trip to Beijing for the end of the Olympics, but his mobile phone and e mail
have been busy as he prepares his counter-attack. The Beijing trip will be his
first contact with the media, so expect stories about his autumn plans.

September Ministers expect a reshuffle in the first few days of the month. Will
Mr Brown seek to bind in his critics and potential successors such as David
Miliband? Plotters hope that low morale will lead to a challenge to Mr Brown,
but there is no sign of any coup leader. Mr Brown should survive, not least
because a change of prime minister could create irresistible pressure for an
early election. Two Cabinet meetings, including one in the Midlands, and a
political discussion are planned for the second and third weeks. Expect Mr Brown
to reveal the broad thrust of help for housing and on fuel prices, possibly in a
speech to the TUC on September 9. The attitude of union leaders will be crucial.
The Labour conference starts on September 20; Mr Brown speaks on the 23rd. Can
he revive the party's spirits?

October Parliament returns on October 6, a key test of the mood of MPs. There
will be a difficult Commons vote on the final stages of the Embryology Bill, and
the Lords are expected to reject 42-day detention in the anti-terrorism Bill.
The Pre-Budget Report comes later in the month with proposals on housing, fuel,
a full compensation package for 10p tax band losers and possible changes to
vehicle excise duty rises on cars, with new debt rules to permit higher
borrowing. There will be a tricky EU summit on the Irish response to the Lisbon
treaty referendum defeat.

November The Lords and Commons clash over 42 days. Mr Brown will seek an early
meeting with the winner of the US elections on the 4th.

December A late Queen's Speech on the 3rd will aim to show that the Government
is still full of ideas, but will contain few controversial Bills.

January/February Hope for mild winter to reduce problem of high gas and
electricity prices. Will inflation be past its peak? Unemployment may be rising.

March The Budget. Will the Chancellor be able to offer light at the end of the
tunnel? Labour MPs are likely to be twitchy over the trend in the polls and
possible further by-election defeats.

June Local and European elections will be held together on the 4th. Labour is
likely to do very badly because county councils were last contested on general
election day, which helped the party. Also, the Tories should do better in the
Euros than in 2004, when the UK Independence Party did very well. A bad Labour
showing could trigger a leadership storm.

Mr Brown still has several cards in his hand but even if, as still looks
probable, he survives this autumn, there could be renewed pressure over his
leadership next summer.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             August 4, 2008 Monday
                                 First Edition

STORIES FOR TORIES;
How great men rise to fame, how to stab your rival in the back, and how easily
it can all go horribly wrong. Tom Peck reads between the lines of the
Conservative Party's holiday book list

BYLINE: Tom Peck

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1040 words


As Labour head for seeming self-destruction, the message to the Conservatives is
clear: head for the sand, and read for government. A "Summer Reading List" of 37
tomes has been circulated to all 195 Tory MPs.

Much to the Tories' doubtless chagrin, there is not a Lord Archer page-turner or
Edwina Currie bonkbuster in sight. Rather, a daunting list of history and
political philosophy, albeit interspersed with the odd, light-hearted look at
the rise of the esteemed leader himself and of his mayoral pal Boris Johnson.

Political Hypocrisy, by the Cambridge don David Runciman, a contemporary of
David Cameron's at Eton, is a notable inclusion, making the case for the
inevitability of hypocrisy in modern democracy. His previous work, The Politics
of Good Intentions, championed Tony Blair as "not simply the boldest liar, but
also the best". Voters take note.

Nudge, this summer's hyped popular psychology text, is "required reading". Its
co-author, Professor Cass Sunstein, who joins Harvard Law School later this
year, said he felt "greatly honoured". "The book's most important lesson is that
21st-century governments should try to improve people's lives not through
mandates and bans, but through creative nudges that do not force anyone to do
anything." So much for critics of Hug-A-Hoodie.

Foreign affairs features prominently - no surprise, given that it was compiled
by the shadow Foreign Office minister, Keith Simpson. Muqtada al-Sadr and the
Fall of Iraq, by this newspaper's correspondent Patrick Cockburn, features, as
does A Problem from Hell: America and the Age of Genocide, by Barack Obama's
former adviser, Samantha Power.

The relevance of Roger Crowley's Empires of the Sea: The Final Battle for the
Mediterranean 1521-1580 is more questionable. According to its author: "There
are lessons to be learnt in the handling of power. Both the main protagonists in
the book - Suleiman the Magnificent and Charles V - were burned out trying to
micromanage their empires." Something for Dave to ponder on his Cornish beach.

For those Pimm's drinkers who have spent the summer dancing gaily around the
polls, Norman Fowler's A Political Suicide: The Conservatives' Voyage Into the
Wilderness, is a timely reminder.

The shadow Schools Secretary, Michael Gove, off to Scotland next week, admitted
he did not have the "Stakhanov-like work ethic to get through all of Keith's
list". His bags contain the listed A Choice of Enemies: America Confronts The
Middle East, by Lawrence Freedman, and Simon Sebag Montefiore's Sashenka.

Boris Johnson's spokesman, Guto Harri, said the Mayor was not doing much reading
in Sardinia. Mr Harri, holed up at the other end of the island, said: "Every
time I speak to him all I can hear is excited cries in the background of
'Dolphins On The Port Side!' An impressive degree of nautical accuracy from his
young family."

And how far through the list is Mr Cameron? A spokesman declined to comment, but
he has time on his hands as, holidaying in the house next door near Padstow, has
been the UKIP leader, Nigel Farage, who said: "The rain has been lashing down,
so he can't have spent much time on the beach."

Finally, one included tome which should be mentioned is Clare Lockhart and Asraf
Ghani's guidebook Fixing Failed States.

Patrick Cockburn, page 27

You ask the Questions, page 28

The full list of books

Terror and Consent: The War for the Twenty-First Century, by Philip Bobbitt

Tony's Ten Years: Memories of the Blair Administration, by Adam Boulton

Influence: The Psychology of Persuasion, by Robert Cialdini

Muqtada al-Sadr and the Fall of Iraq by Patrick Cockburn

Empires of the Sea: The Final Battle for the Mediterranean 1521-1580 by Roger
Crowley

Boris v Ken: How Boris Johnson Won London, by Giles Edwards and Jonathan Isaby

A Political Suicide: The Conservatives' Voyage into the Wilderness, by Norman
Fowler

Munich: The 1938 Appeasement Crisis, by David Faber

A Million Bullets: The RealDiary of the British Army in Afghanistan, by
JamesFergusson

Rivals: How the Power Struggle Between China, India and Japan will Shape our
Next Decade, by Bill Emmott

A Choice of Enemies: America Confronts the Middle East, by Laurence Freedman

Fixing Failed States: A Framework for Rebuilding a Fractured World, by Ashraf
Ghani and Clare Lockhart

The Rise of Boris Johnson, by Andrew Gimson

The Pain and the Privilege: The Women in Lloyd George's Life, by Ffion Hague

Inside the Private Office: Memoirs of the Secretary to British Foreign
Ministers, by Nicholas Henderson

Good Business: Your World Needs You, by Steve Hilton and Giles Gibbons

Dinner with Mugabe: The Untold Story, by Heidi Holland

Politicians and Public Services: Implementing Change in a Clash of Cultures, by
Kate Jenkins

Cameron on Cameron, by Dylan Jones

Vote for Caesar: How the Ancient Greeks and Romans Solved the Problems of Today,
by Peter Jones

The Return of History and the End of Dreams, by Robert Kagan

Five Days in London, by John Lukas

Hitler's Empire: Nazi Life in Occupied Europe, by Mark Mazower

Paradise Lost: Smyrna 1922: The Destruction of Islam's City of Tolerance, by
Giles Milton

1948: The First Arab Israeli War, by Benny Morris

Cold Cream: My Early Life and Other Mistakes, by Ferdinand Mount

Thinking in Time: The Uses of History for Decision Makers, by E Neudstadt and
Ernest R May

Britain in Africa, Tom Porteous

A Problem from Hell: America and the Age of Genocide, by Samantha Power

Descent into Chaos: How the War against Islamic Extremism is being lost in
Pakistan, Afghanistan and Central Asia, by Ahmed Rashid

Masters and Commanders: How Roosevelt, Churchill, Marshall and Alanbrooke Won
the War in the West, by Andrew Roberts

Political Hypocrisy: The Mask of Power from Hobbes to Orwell and Beyond, by
David Runciman

Good Manners and Bad Behaviour: The Unofficial Rules of Diplomacy, by Candida
Slater

Nudge: Improving Decisions about Health, Wealth and Happiness, by Richard H
Thaler and Cass R Sunstein

A Stranger in Europe: Britain and the EU from Thatcher to Blair, by Stephen Wall

Decline to Fall: The Making of British Macro-Economic Policy and the 1976 IMF
Crisis, by Douglas Wass

Mr Lincoln's T-Mails: The Untold Story of How Abraham Lincoln Used the Telegraph
to Win the Civil War, by Tom Wheeler

The Post-American World, by Fareed Zakaria

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            August 2, 2008 Saturday

Cameron coy with Cornish neighbour;
Mandrake

BYLINE: Edited by Richard Eden by Tim Walker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 109  words


David Cameron has found time on his holiday in Cornwall to give media interviews
and undertake a heavily publicised visit to a farmers' market, but he has
managed to avoid Nigel Farage, the UK Independence Party leader, who is renting
the cottage next door.

"My son Tom was waiting for the bus to Padstow outside the Constantine Bay
Stores yesterday when Cameron rolled up,'' Farage tells me. "He said hello and
introduced himself as Tom Farage, to which Cameron nervously replied: 'You must
be Nigel's son - jolly good, must dash'.''

Adds Farage Snr: "If he wants to come for a few sherbets down the pub or join me
fishing, I'd be delighted to see him.''

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             August 1, 2008 Friday

Birthdays

SECTION: GUARDIAN OBITUARIES PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 174 words


Prof Janet Beer, vice-chancellor, Oxford Brookes University, 52; Derek Birdsall,
graphic designer and typographer, 74; Adrian Dunbar, actor, 50; David James,
footballer, 38; Mervyn Kitchen, cricket umpire, 68; Jack Kramer, tennis
champion, 87; Prof Monty Losowsky, gastroenterologist, 77; Sam Mendes, theatre
and film director, 43; Stanley Middleton, novelist, 89; Carlie Newman, first
director, Greater London Forum for the Elderly, 68; Prof Ben Roberts, industrial
relations expert, 91; Andy Roxburgh, football coach, 65; Prof Sir Peter Scott,
educationist, vice chancellor, Kingston University, 62; Jeffrey Segal, actor and
playwright, 88; Bob Spink, Conservative and now Ukip MP, 59; The Rt Rev Prof
Stephen Sykes, theologian, former principal, St John's College, Durham
University, 69; Prof Laurie Taylor, sociologist and broadcaster, 72; Sir Quentin
Thomas, president, British Board of Film Classification, 64; Gwyn Ward Thomas,
former chairman, Yorkshire-Tyne Tees TV, 85; Graham Thorpe, cricketer, 39; Mark
Wright, football manager, 45.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             August 1, 2008 Friday

Jeff Abbott

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg.58

LENGTH: 561 words


Jeff Abbott, schoolmaster, was born on October 22, 1933. He died of cancer on
July 3, 2008, aged 74

Classical scholar who was a memorable teacher at Uppingham

Jeff Abbott, "the Major", was the Mr Chips of Uppingham. He was the father
figure, mentor and legend for generations of Uppinghamians. He continued to care
for them after they had left the school, and they kept in touch with him. He
taught his children Roman stoicism, good manners and Britishness. They never
forgot him.

Jeffrey Sutton Abbott was born in 1933. He was the star of Newbury Grammar
School, playing rugby for Berkshire, and winning a major scholarship to Trinity
College, Oxford, to read Mods under Tommy Higham and Greats under James
Holladay. From him he learnt his love of Rome. Gibbon's Decline and Fall of the
Roman Empire was one of his favourite books. He played at No 8 or lock for
Oxford and the Harlequins, and was fast, clever and brave. Although a giant, he
was not quite big enough to win a cap for England, though he came close. He was
also a thespian for the dramatic society and the Trinity Players. In later life
he and his friends re-enacted The Four Men of Sussex around the inns of the
Downs, setting a table with jugs of ale between the audience and the players for
all to help themselves ad lib. And his performance as Badger in The Wind in the
Willows, whacking the weasels, gave a taste of his later ironic use of the cane
as schoolmaster.

At Uppingham he taught English and classics, in a memorably individual style. He
was housemaster of West Bank in 1968-83. Innocents imagined that his house flag
displayed crossed hockey sticks. In fact, Abbott had designed crossed canes, and
a sun with flails coming out of it. He chose St Francis Xavier as his house
saint because St Francis introduced the scourge to Japan. It was irony. He was a
beating housemaster but was in turns both frightening and funny. He was a gentle
father figure to unhappy small boys without male role models. He created West
Bank's wonderful garden, "the Dell", where he would teach his class whenever
weather permitted, or even if it didn't.

The crusty codger carapace was partly a jocular act. He hated ships and
pretended to be terrified by mobile phones. He held that the Greeks were nowhere
as good as the Romans, and he thought that a healthy respect for all things
Roman would teach our current political masters a thing or two. He stood for
Parliament for UKIP, not entirely as a joke, though he managed to get many
laughs and jokes out of his campaign. But beneath the bluff exterior, the Major
had a bottom of good sense. "Be precise, concise and concrete," he advised his
boy essayists. And: "No essay is complete without a quote from Alice (in
Wonderland)."

He loved going to Devon for bridge and beer-drinking. Every year he went to
Scotland for the Melrose Sevens and the Edinburgh Tattoo. He was the subject of
a cricket book by J.S.Finch called Game in Season, subtitled Mr Abbott's
Sporting Tour, which is regarded as a classic.

Abbott was a regular correspondent to his Old Boys, with newspaper cuttings,
encouragement and jokes. He was a great schoolmaster who influenced his country
more than most schemes of political improvement.

He is survived by his wife, Angela, and by the three children of his first
marriage to Jo Philby, and three step-children.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
