
                               1 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             July 29, 2008 Tuesday

UKIP boss Nigel Farage next door to David Cameron

BYLINE: Katherine Bergen

SECTION: THE WHIP; OPINION

LENGTH: 118 words


THE WHIP discovers that Tory leader David Cameron's next-door neighbour at his
Cornish summer retreat is none other than his old rival, UKIP boss Nigel Farage.
Farage - who has rented the next house along the cliff - is unlikely to have
forgotten that in 2006 Cameron described his Right-wing Eurosceptic party as
being made up of "fruitcakes and loonies - and closet racists mostly". So far,
the political rivals haven't crossed paths and yesterday Farage spent all day in
a boat trying to catch a shark. A pal of Farage's says: "There would be
fireworks if they bumped into one another but Nigel is out fishing all the time
and having a real holiday while Dave seems more intent on posing for the
cameras."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              July 25, 2008 Friday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 686 words


How to describe the grief at the News of the World as Max Mosley wins his
privacy case, pocketing £60,000 and costing the Murdoch empire up to £1m in
legal fees? The latest advertisement for the paper, commissioned when it seemed
obvious that it would lose, nevertheless shows the torso of a dominatrix with
the tagline: "Domination. Mosley's not the only one getting a spanking. We have
been beating our rivals for 165 years." As you see: desolate, inconsolable.

And surely we reached a pretty pass this week when Dr Julian Lewis, one of the
more rightwing Tories, stood up to denounce the lefties at the Telegraph. The
beastly Sunday Telegraph wants to reveal my home address, he told MPs; and it
wants to reveal all your addresses. He fingered the deputy news editor and
former home affairs correspondent, Ben Leapman, as the culprit. "Unfortunately,
apart from employing an anti-Conservative activist as a political journalist,
the Sunday Telegraph has bought into his reckless campaign to expose MPs'
addresses and has done everything it can to attack me," he complained. It
transpires that Leapman merely queried Lewis's use of a nom de plume to register
his home address. He has also scrutinised MPs' expenses. Still, how would Labour
types feel if the Guardian employed the Europhobe Bill Cash or the Ukip talisman
Bob Spink, asked Lewis. No worse than us.

We feel that if staff working for MPs at the Commons need training, they should
have it, particularly in e-learning. It's a big job, an important job. Who could
we best hire? Why not Capita? Never mind the mess-ups involving the congestion
charge, the housing benefits fiasco in Lambeth, the criminal records bureau
failure and the individual learning accounts fiasco - £70m over budget and
scrapped on police advice. Let's go with Capita. Lightning never strikes twice.

"No UK organisation has done more to damage environmental protection than
Channel 4," fulminated George Monbiot this week as the broadcaster sustained a
split lip from Ofcom for its controversial documentary on global warming.
Monbiot's attack on the broadcaster is all over the web now and it's a bit of a
PR disaster. Might Channel 4 have seen it coming? Well, possibly, as the clues
were there in a lengthy article it commissioned last year for a book to mark the
station's 25th anniversary. In it, one George Monbiot said something to the
effect that no UK organisation has done more to damage environmental protection
than Channel 4, but strangely his article was omitted from the anniversary tome
- though the station was forced to shell out to Monbiot. We suspect that no UK
organisation has done more to help its main detractor hone the arguments with
which he would later skewer it. They are innovators, altruists.

Finally, as the world picks over the entrails of his 12 years in the shadows,
Radovan Karadzic sits forlornly in his cell, refusing food and reading the
Bible. He probably enjoys the stuff about smiting. Ever true to type. His first
request was to shave the beard that helped him stay incognito, a revelation that
may ease the pressure on all those here who wear beards for very different
reasons and with considerably more pride. Yesterday the Beard Liberation Front,
the informal network of beard wearers, wrote to home secretary Jacqui Smith
demanding urgent intervention to stop "the orgy of beardism" - ie irrational
prejudice towards the hirsute - that has, it says, swamped the media in the past
few days. Keith Flett is the organisation's Obama, providing both inspiration
and leadership. "You can see the more rabid pogonophobes in the security
services demanding random checks on people's beards to see if they are false or
hiding something," he says. "It is essential that the home secretary acts to
make it clear that beardism is not part of British society and that the hirsute,
from Frank Dobson to Noel Edmonds, have nothing to fear." We suspect this is
aimed at us as yesterday we endorsed these random checks, thus making us part of
the problem rather than the solution. We are big enough to say, we're sorry. And
we mean it.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 16 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            July 23, 2008 Wednesday
                                  SC1 Edition

True meaning of union;
LETTERS

SECTION: Pg. 56

LENGTH: 132 words


IT WAS the Conservative Party that took us into the Common Market and then the
European Union and Labour who campaigned against it.

The vast majority of British citizens and political parties see the benefits of
closer union in terms of security and prosperity - with the exception of the two
nationalist parties, the SNP and UKIP.

While the latter want us to leave the EU, the former want to divorce themselves
from their kith and kin in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, only to jump
into bed with their former partners and friends in an enlarged EU.

No wonder Einstein said: 'Nationalism is an infantile disease. It is the measles
of mankind.' True unionism is embracing as many countries as possible, and
regarding each and every one of them as home.

COLIN WILSON, Falkirk, Stirlingshire..

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            July 23, 2008 Wednesday

INSURANCE;
MPs demand Equitable debate

BYLINE: Yvette Essen Insurance Correspondent

SECTION: CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 277  words


MEMBERS of Parliament have entered early day motions calling for a debate on
compensation for Equitable Life policy holders.

Christopher Chope, a former Opposition front bench spokesman for the Treasury,
has lodged a proposal in light of last week's Parliamentary Ombudsman's report,
which accused the Government of failing to regulate the mutual insurer
correctly. Equitable was forced to stop taking on new business in 2001 after
being unable to pay guaranteed bonuses, causing more than a million policy
holders to see their investments slashed.

Mr Chope's motion "calls upon the Government'' to accept the findings of
Ombudsman Ann Abraham's report, "apologise and implement the recommendations for
compensation''. To date, 10 MPs from four parties have signed up to the motion.
They include Alan Meale, a former front bench Labour Whip and Parliamentary
Private Secretary to John Prescott, and Liberal Democrat Mike Hancock, MP for
Portsmouth South.

Bob Spink, the Tory MP who defected to UK Independence Party, has also pledged
his support, as well as setting up his own motion, noting "that many pensioners
are passing away without seeing justice done'' and calling on the report's
recommendations to be honoured "without further loss of time''.

The formal motions come as more than 4,300 people have signed the The Daily
Telegraph's petition calling for compensation.

Conservative MP Mr Chope said: "The Government is trying to stall as their
instincts are that the sort of people they think have Equitable policies are not
their natural supporters. They do not see any reason to provide the same
compensation as they did with Northern Rock.''

join the campaign

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            July 23, 2008 Wednesday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 672 words


For all the shenanigans and misbehaviour over the past parliamentary year, there
has been little actual lawbreaking at the House of Commons - which is good,
because one wonders just how well-placed the police would have been to deal with
it. Where to start? Should it be the furore over attempts by Ed Bateman, the
head of security at the House, to have one of his security guards dismissed for
gross misconduct; efforts frustrated by a disciplinary board which said the
punishment was too harsh? John McDonnell MP, Jeremy Corbyn MP, Baroness Amos and
Lord Bill Morris have all voiced disquiet about that one. The guard himself will
take claims of race discrimination and victimisation to an employment tribunal.
Or should it be the other two security officers who have also launched
employment tribunal proceedings and will make the same claims of racial
discrimination to the court? What about their colleague, in talks with lawyers
after having been turned down for promotion? Or the police officer who has
triggered the grievance procedure, complaining of bullying? It's a diverse
bunch, and Bateman will doubtless draw on his experiences as a former head of
race and diversity at Scotland Yard. The right man in the right place at the
right time.

As was James Purnell, the work and pensions secretary, who sought and largely
gained consensus for the government's latest welfare reforms. Some say the high
point of his day occurred when the Tory-to-Ukip defector, Bob Spink, rose to
announce his support for the government's green paper, saying that it "in many
ways follows Ukip's welfare-to-work policy". The minister voiced his gratitude
at seeing Spinks's "parliamentary party completely behind his leadership in
support for the policy". But then Spink is the only Ukip MP, and thus he is the
parliamentary party. Number one in a field of one. Captain of the dinghy.

Though Conrad Black may be inmate 18330-424 to others at Florida's Coleman
Correctional Complex, he is still the go-to guy for those he was close to. This
appears to be the case at the New York Sun, where journalists ran a flattering
review of Rick Perlstein's book Nixonland, only to clear another space three
weeks later so that inmate 18330-424 - an investor in the paper and himself a
Nixon biographer who likes Tricky Dicky a lot more than Mr Perlstein did - could
give the new book and its author a drubbing. He's less available, but he's still
the man. Need a phonecard? No problem.

It was a "civic duty" to attend the Wimbledon final, Boris Johnson told us in
his Daily Telegraph column two weeks ago. "My bathing trunks and I are off to
the sun," the mayor scribbled yesterday. It's a marathon, not a sprint. Someone
tell him.

And then tell him to be careful with the imagery, for few of us wish to think of
Ken Livingstone "clinking around the local offie" in Corfu "with his string vest
and yellow Bermudas". And some of us were eating.

But bless him, he's a bike man, as are so many Tories nowadays, including Messrs
Cameron, Letwin, Osborne, Willetts and Vaizey. They are the best way to the
fast-track was the conclusion one reached, hearing an analysis of the phenomenon
on the Today programme yesterday. But can there be any reason or justification
for Andrew Neil huffing and puffing, red-faced in his suit, between the BBC's
Millbank studios and the Spectator office? He doesn't seek preferment, and by
all accounts the sight merely deters others who might otherwise abandon their
cars. We all need to be fitter, and there's global warming to think about, but
frankly some powerful types belong in the back of a cab. We'll all cycle a bit
more to offset the pollution. Sit back there, Andrew. Leave it to us.

And finally, anxiety in north London, where trees are being chewed to death by
fighting dogs. The culprits are not the animals but owners, who let them
strengthen their jaws by savaging the bark. A colleague suggests it's one for
special branch, but we slap him down for not taking the matter seriously. Pay
peanuts . . .

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             July 22, 2008 Tuesday

Simon Hoggart's sketch Pith taken out of Purnell

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 483 words


James Purnell, the work and pensions secretary, used to babysit for the Blairs,
and yesterday he demonstrated that he still cares for their children.
Privatisation, for example: long-term disabled claimants are going to be handed
over to "outside providers". Rather like the company that marked this year's
Sats papers, perhaps. Like any proud parent, Tony Blair loved

giving names to his policies, such as Pathways To Work. He also adored a snappy
slogan.

Yesterday Mr Purnell gave us a beauty: "Work works!" he declared. He introduced
us to something called the "work-focused health-related assessment
questionnaire," or "Wufra" as the toilers in the ministry call it
affectionately.

The minister also likes to use contrasting clauses to make a pithy point. "Help
people in need today, to reduce their need tomorrow." "All too often, when
people signed on, the system signed off."

He is, as they say at Westminster, a great pith artist.

His opposite number, the Tories' Chris Grayling, was delighted. He thought the
green paper was spiffy, because, he said, most of the plans were lifted from his
party.

He also pondered why the scheme, which might alarm many claimants, had been
published three days before the byelection in Glasgow East, a place which has
more claimants than, for example, London's Kensington. "We may suspect," he
said, "that he might have had other reasons for wanting it published."

This was probably a reference to Mr Purnell's alleged ambition to lead his
party, and indeed you could detect Mr Purnell's concern. If, as everyone
assumes, Labour does very badly at the next election, the party's rump will be
fairly leftwing.

You could almost see the alarm going off in his head. "Praise from the Tories
alert. Wheep wheep! Do not use the lifts. Stand by for further announcements!
Wheep wheep!"

So he cunningly used the mention of Glasgow East to claim that the Tories had
heartlessly neglected the city. And he produced an amazingly convoluted argument
to allege that the Tories wanted to cut benefits.

As opposition backbenchers shouted, with gratifying indignation, that they
wanted no such thing, you could hear the all-clear sounding inside Mr Purnell's
brain.

But the worst was to come. The Conservative Robert Goodwill announced: "As
someone who likes to think he is on the rightwing of my party, I am absolutely
thrilled!" These people will stop at nothing.

They must rate Mr Purnell very highly, which means they don't want him to
succeed, so to stop him succeeding they keep saying how highly they rate him.
Sounds crazy, but it might just work.

Finally, Bob Spink, the Tory apostate who is now the only Ukip MP in the
Commons, said he liked the package "because it follows Ukip's policy".

Praised by Ukip! As MPs fell about laughing, Mr Purnell must have felt suicidal.
But he recovered to say that he was delighted to see that Mr Spink's
parliamentary party was entirely united.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 12, 2008 Saturday

Three line whip

BYLINE: Jonathan Isaby

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 250  words


* Remember how the Government used to claim that the Millennium Dome had been a
success, despite costing nearly  pounds 800 million and attracting only half the
anticipated visitors? Eight years on and Tessa Jowell, the minister for London,
has admitted what most of us thought all along: it was a "white elephant''.

Speaking on LBC radio, she said: "There were mistakes made in relation to the
Millennium Dome and the learning from those mistakes has been applied to the
Olympics. There will be no question of any white elephants on the Olympic
park.''

* Earlier in the Haltemprice and Howden campaign I noted that Alan B'Stard, the
philandering MP for Haltemprice in the ITV sitcom The New Statesman, had - like
David Davis - fought an election without any serious opponents.

Now that Davis has been re-elected, the former shadow home secretary has
something else in common with his fictional counterpart: he has a larger
majority (in percentage terms) than any other MP. In the TV series, Rik Mayall's
character used to answer the phone with: "Alan B'Stard, biggest majority in the
House of Commons!'' It remains to be seen whether Davis will follow suit.

*Bob Spink, the Tory MP who defected to Ukip, last week expressed his desire to
see more women in Parliament.

Right on cue, the Conservatives in his Castle Point constituency have chosen
40-year-old Rebecca Harris to fight the seat at the next election, when she's
expected to replace Spink. I'm sure he'll be delighted.

threelinewhip@telegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 16 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              July 11, 2008 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

FURY AT EU DOLE PLAN

BYLINE: by TOM SAVAGE

SECTION: NEWS; 11

LENGTH: 141 words


BARMY Eurocrats have given the green light for immigrants to claim UK benefits
abroad.

The move, based on a report by Jean Lambert, Green Party MEP for London, was
slammed last night.

Any EU resident who comes here to work and loses their job or falls ill can
claim benefits.

Now, if they jet off to live in Spain or another EU country, they can still
claim the handouts there.

"I am disgusted, " said UKIP MEP Derek Clark. The EU has just voted itself the
use and abuse of British taxpayers's money in a way that could bring our welfare
state to the brink of collapse, and Jean Lambert has made this possible."
Matthew Sinclair, policy analyst at the TaxPayers' Alliance, added: "The benefit
system is meant to help British people who fall on hard times. It should be
about helping people get back on their feet, not subsidising work-shy
foreigners."

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REPORT: Jean Lambert
FURIOUS: Derek Clark

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 July 11, 2008

Tory frontbenchers declare thousands of pounds in donations

LENGTH: 504 words


Conservative frontbenchers have received tens of thousands of pounds in
donations in recent months, new figures show.

The data, released today by the Electoral Commission, follows a ruling in May by
Westminster's standards commissioner that shadow cabinet members should
individually declare donations to their offices, even if they have been
channelled through Conservative central office.

In his ruling on a complaint from two Labour MPs, Commissioner John Lyon made no
criticism of the shadow cabinet, but gave them four weeks to update their
entries in the Commons register of members' interests.

Today's monthly release from the Electoral Commission includes cash donations
accepted during April and May, as well as a number of subsidised trips. Most of
the gifts have already been entered separately in the register.

Andrew Mitchell, shadow international development secretary, received the most
with cash donations totalling £72,500, the bulk of which was registered before
Lyon's ruling.

His gifts included £50,000 from Helena Frost of Hove and £15,000 from
pharmaceuticals millionaire Lennart Perlhagen.

Shadow foreign secretary William Hague recorded cash donations totalling £10,000
as well as a non-cash donation worth £7,263 from finance company CQS LLP and
flights worth £3,314 paid for by Flying Lion Ltd.

Shadow justice secretary Nick Herbert received £15,000 from public relations and
research group Chime Communications.

Conservative health spokesman Stephen O'Brien recorded a cash donation of
£25,000 from Julian Schild, the former owner of Huntleigh Technology, which
makes life support and sterilisation systems for the NHS.

Transport spokesman Mike Penning reported a £35,000 gift from tourism and
training tycoon Jan Telensky and shadow Cabinet Office minister Greg Clark a
£5,000 gift from Stephen Barry.

Among the MPs reporting subsidised trips were former chancellor Kenneth Clarke,
Tory backbencher Andrew Rosindell and Ukip's Bob Spink, who each had a visit
worth £3,000 paid for by the Government of Taiwan.

Former International Development Secretary Clare Short reports visits funded to
the tune of £6,882 by the United Nations, the African Development Bank and Stern
magazine, while the victor of yesterday's Haltemprice and Howden by-election
David Davis had a visit worth £3,500 paid for by the Sutton Trust educational
charity.

The monthly update of donations and subsidised trips to MPs also lists a flurry
of late submissions, some dating back as far as 2004.

A government white paper on party funding, published last month, has responded
to electoral watchdog calls for powers to impose penalties on MPs who fail to
register donations within thirty days, as required.

Currently, the commission only has powers to slap penalties on political parties
for late submissions, but not individuals.

A spokeswoman for the Electoral Commission said there was a need for "a more
flexible range of sanctions to enable a rigorous, yet proportionate, response to
breaches of the rules on party and election finance."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               10 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             July 9, 2008 Wednesday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 678 words


There will be no whingeing from this column about Gordon's insistence that we
all eat the leftovers. So what if the communities department threw out 220
million tons of food in 2007; the Department of Health 14 million? We like
rissoles. We like Gordon. Now you'll say that a better-run administration
wouldn't be harping on about the need to cut down on waste, having five months
ago reduced the budget for Wrap, the organisation created to reduce waste and
packaging which last year launched a specific campaign on food waste. And
probably we would agree with you. But we're still with Gordon on this one.
Rissoles. Lovely.

But not too many. He also has a thing about obesity, health of the nation. Can't
have mixed messages. They talked at length about our nutritional wellbeing
yesterday at a big conference at the Queen Elizabeth II conference centre.
Healthy Weight, Healthy Lives it was called and the scheduled speakers were
stellar: Liam Donaldson, the chief medical officer, and Will Cavendish, the
director of strategy at the Department of Health. As were the sponsors, Nestle,
our friends who have done so much to promote their baby milk products in the
developing world to women who might otherwise have more healthily breast fed.
Last month, when Nestle sponsored a health debate for Conservative types, we
missed out - and yesterday we were absent again. But they seem to rub shoulders
with policymakers quite often. Only a matter of time.

So Bob Spink, the Ukip talisman in the House of Commons, will be the face of the
party's drive to recruit more women. "I have encouraged the Ukip national
executive committee to find ways to attract more Ukip women candidates for the
next Euro elections," he says. And as he is their big hitter, having latterly
defected from the Conservatives, his fellows in the top tier - for all of them
are male - are sure to listen. Some will be harder to convince than others.
"Positive discrimination is still discrimination, so selection on the basis of
sex or race is indeed sexist or racist," said Yorkshire MEP Godfrey Bloom,
reacting to the recent equalities bill. But even he has mellowed since 2004 when
he revealed that "no self-respecting small businessman with a brain in the right
place would ever employ a lady of child-bearing age". He also promised then to
deal with women's issues because "I just don't think they clean behind the
fridge enough", adding: "I am here to represent Yorkshire women who always have
dinner on the table when you get home. I am going to promote men's rights." But
time has passed and even he can see that the party must have something to offer
the ladies if it is to thrive; a sherry maybe. Perhaps a port and lemon.

Things are not always as they seem at the Financial Times, where many detect a
shift to the right under editor Lionel Barber. Witness the collaboration with
the Nuffield Trust, a health research charity, to produce a booklet
commemorating the NHS's 60th anniversary. The contents, put together by the FT's
public affairs editor Nicholas Timmins, are his usual exemplary stuff, and the
cover displays the title "Rejuvenate or Retire?". Looming large is a picture of
Big Ben. The clock hands were initially set at an innocuous half past 10, but
then the FT editors reset the hands to read three minutes to 12, the better,
some say, to reflect the views of those who want rid of a tax-funded, free at
the point of use NHS and say its time is almost up. A slight sleight of hand
perhaps, but there is to be no more of that sort of thing, Mr Barber. And we'll
be watching.

A quick shout out and it's wassup to Brian Coleman, London Assembly member,
chair of the London Fire Authority, and cab user extraordinaire - who has been
offered and has accepted an honorary doctorate from Middlesex University,
despite publicly declaring four years ago that the establishment was "crap". We
now understand this was in fact a flattering acronym (Cutting-edged, Rigorous,
Academic, er, sort of Place, or something similar). If we ever suggested
otherwise, we're sorry.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 9, 2008 Wednesday 8:48 PM GMT

Conservative MEPs come clean on expenses

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 322 words


David Cameron has required all Conservative MEPs to publish their allowances and
expenses. Good for him.

The move won't solve everything. Few other British MEPs, let alone those from
other nationalities, will follow suit. And, journalists being prone to idleness,
this will ensure that the focus remains on the Tories. After all, as I write in
today's First Post, it was precisely because Conservative MEPs had taken to
volunteering information that they got into trouble: the recent "revelations"
were simply taken from Tory MEPs' Declarations of Interest. Annoyingly, no one
bothers to go after the majority of Labour and Lib Dem MEPs who are keeping
schtum - and are presumably keeping schtum for a reason. (To be fair, the two
Greens, and the nine remaining UKIP members, have been readier to declare where
their allowances go.)

Still, at least it's a start. The very fact of having to keep receipts, and
having to publish what they do, should serve to remind MEPs that "their" money
is in fact taxpayers' money. Over time, this may make Euro-MPs think differently
about the money disbursed by the EU which, of course, is also taxpayers' money.

There is a reason that MEPs have evolved the extraordinary expenses system
described often before by this blog: it suited Euro-integrationists to tie them
into the system. The more compromised they became, the less likely they were to
protest when the EU wasted much larger sums on agriculture, regional grants,
foreign aid or assorted boondoggles.

Most MEPs will continue to take a generous view of the regime that pays them so
handsomely. But at least we Conservatives will now be visibly set apart from the
rest.

Regular readers will know that I rather like David Cameron - a feeling which, as
far as I can tell, is wholly unreciprocated. Not all of you share my high
opinion of him. But today, I hope that even the angriest of my posters will
recognise that he has done the right thing.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 16 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              July 7, 2008 Monday

Danger of mercury fillings is very real;
LETTERS

SECTION: IRE; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 1227 words


CONGRATULATIONS on your front page coverage of a serious topic which has been
subject to cover-up, controversy and obfuscation for more than 100 years.

Eventually, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) could no longer
acquiesce to the wishes of the American Dental Association (ADA), and has had to
classify dental amalgam according to its safety and effectiveness.

Acting at last, under duress from a mandate of the U.S. Congress and a lawsuit
initiated by Moms Against Mercury Amalgam and Charles Brown of Consumers for
Dental Choice, the FDA has admitted the dangers of amalgam.

The problem of amalgam is not theoretical   it is proven fact. I have
specialised in the practice of environmental medicine for about 20 years and I
have seen thousands of people suffering from all sorts of diseases from dental
mercury, and have seen many recoveries after detoxification.

One of the factors in our current health care crisis is that rarely is there an
attempt made to identify the cause of a disease. Environmental toxins, including
dental mercury, are a major factor in illnesses, most of which have multiple
causes.

Only once in all those years have I heard of a conventional doctor suggesting
that dental amalgam could be a problem, and I have never heard of a suggestion
to test for mercury poisoning.

Look at one disease as an example: Alzheimer s. Today in the U.S. there are
about 5million sufferers, and that is projected to increase to 16million by
2050. There is now dramatic visual proof from the University of Calgary that
mercury is a major cause of this disease.

It is noteworthy that Spanish health advocates will sue the Spanish department
of health for ignoring the harmful effects of the mercury present in dental
fillings and vaccines.

It will be interesting to see how the HSE and the Irish Dental Association will
react. The greatest irony of all is that our General Medical Services scheme
will not pay for the placement of non-amalgam fillings. In other words, the
patient with a medical card can get amalgam placements paid by the State, but
must pay if he wants non-amalgam fillings.

ANTHONY HUGHES, Blackrock, Co. Dublin. The will of the people THE debate
regarding the Lisbon Treaty seems to be relentless. It is increasingly
frustrating to listen to the drama unfolding; the slow, deliberate move towards
a second referendum.

The politicians continue to undermine the electorate by postponing making an
announcement, by refusing to accept that the majority have made a decision, in
accordance with our constitution.

Already, Brian Cowen has failed in carrying out his duty. The message from
Brussels is that ratification should continue in other countries  the
implication being that once (if) the 26 countries have ratified Ireland will be
in a position where they will feel that one more attempt at ratification of the
Reform Treaty will be necessary. And we will be asked to vote again.

Brian Cowen should rule this out immediately. Tell them there is nothing he can
do. His people have made their decision. They won t shoot the messenger.
However, if the messenger doesn t deliver the message, he may not be sent again.

It is frustrating that the opposition i s not pressuring the Taoiseach to carry
out his duty. Enda Kenny, if he had any political will, or any respect for the
decision taken by the people, would call for a vote of no confidence in the
Taoiseach, and demand a general election.

There have been a number of agreements signed between the Irish people and the
other countries of Europe, which declare that all parties agree that new
treaties cannot be adopted without ratification by all countries as required in
each of their constitutions. Ireland has upheld her side of the agreement   it
is the other EU countries who are letting Europe down by not recognising the
agreements previously signed.

Yet, this is not how it is portrayed in the popular media. It is frustrating to
listen to our public representatives defaming the electorate, by inference of
association with Le Pen, the UKIP, etc., attempting to shame those that voted
No, to change their vote in the anticipated re-run. It is a shameless tactic. It
is betrayal of those who elected them to represent the will of the people.

DUALTA ROUGHNEEN, Kiltimagh, Co Mayo. Agreat president? LIKE Mark Dooley, I
believe George W. Bush will ultimately be recognised as one of the great U.S.
presidents. While not quite in the same league as the greatest of all in recent
years, Ronald Reagan, nevertheless his legacy is still a proud one.

In addition to his resolve on international security, he also did his utmost to
restore some sanity to social policy by appointing some excellent individuals
(most of them decent, orthodox Catholics) to the U.S. Supreme Court.

His father was equally magnanimous in this regard when appointing the Catholic
African-American, Clarence Thomas, to the court. An appointment which elicited a
crescendo of vile bigotry from the liberal feminist Left.

Indeed, the intolerant arrogance of the latter is on a par with our home-grown
and Continental pro-Lisbon sycophants, whom Mary Ellen Synon so brilliantly
critiques.

ERIC CONWAY, Navan, Co. Meath. Driven to distraction IT WAS with little surprise
to hear of the Department of Transport s admission that fully-licensed drivers
cannot be breathalysed when accompanying a learner driver. This kind of
sloppiness and lack of any forward-thinking is rife in the making of our laws.

The Department s measures are unworkable and indeed discriminatory. The great
majority of accidents and fatalities are caused by fully-licensed drivers
having a licence does not, unfortunately, make a person immune to accidents.

The wrong class of driver is being unjustly targeted. Learners pay their road
tax, NCT, insurance and fuel like anyone else. They should not be forced to
skulk around in fear while real criminals mock the legal system.

If learners are considered to be inherently dangerous drivers, then the same
should be applied to banned drivers. Why is a fully-licensed and banned driver
not compelled to take another driving test before being allowed back onto the
road?

Dr FLORENCE CRAVEN, Maynooth, Co. Kildare. While despots laugh NIGERIA sends its
population abroad in wave after wave of asylum seekers   supposed desperate
people who arrive pleading that to return them will mean imprisonment and death.

The country is oil rich, yet people die from poverty; it comes first in
corruption and last in human rights, yet when its ambassador, Kemafo Nonyerem
Chikwe, arrived to take up her job this week, she was rewarded with a guard of
honour at Áras an Uachtaráin.

How the despots of this world must laugh before getting on with business. EOIN
WHITE, Dublin 1.

Straight to the POINT

¦WHENEVER you continually hear those calming words  there is no need for panic ,
it is well advised to head for the nearest exit.

KEITH NOLAN, Carrick-on-Shannon, Co. Leitrim. ¦ ANYONE familiar with the way
business is done in the upper echelons of the corporate world knows what a
fiddle so-called  expenses  can be. However unethical it is in business, it is
unconscionable among public servants, particularly at a time when the rest of us
are struggling just to get by.

JIM DOYLE, Dublin 8. ¦ E2.5MILLION for Jeremy Clarkson? I thought the bosses at
RTÉ were mad, but the BBC takes the biscuit.

ANNA CALLAGHAN, Dublin 15.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dental danger? The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has criticised the
use of amalgam fillings

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 6, 2008 Sunday 7:13 PM GMT

The EU is a bigger threat to our liberties than 42-day detention

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 383 words


We can be remarkably insular sometimes. We are outraged - and rightly - at the
proposal to repeal a large chunk of the Great Charter to allow internment for
six weeks. Yet we don't seem to give a toss about allowing people to be
incarcerated for months, even years, without their case coming to trial.

But that doesn't happen in Britain, you protest. True. It does happen, though,
in some EU states, as my constituency mailbag attests. And, since Brussels
created the Orwellian-sounding "Area of Freedom Security and Justice", we are
part of a common European jurisdiction. Under the European Arrest Warrant, a
British subject can be hoicked away to face trial elsewhere without any evidence
being presented in this country. To all intents and purposes, the EAW has the
same force as a warrant served by one of our own judges.

Tomorrow morning, such a warrant will be served on a 19-year-old British student
called Andrew Symeou, who is wanted for manslaughter by the Greek authorities.
Mr Symeou is accused of having pushed someone over in a nightclub, who later
died of head injuries. He protests his innocence, and says that the case against
him depends wholly on statements produced under coercion.

I have no idea what the truth of the matter is. But it ought to bother us that a
man might face prolonged detention without trial, far from home, without any
meaningful judicial process in this country. To be detained without charge is an
outrage; but it is an outrage hardly mitigated by being formally charged if your
case is not then brought promptly to court. A constituent of mine recently spent
14 months in a German prison without his case coming to trial. As it turned out,
he was found guilty. But guilty men - perhaps guilty men especially - deserve
due process. Justice delayed, as the old saying goes, is justice denied.

With the sole and creditable exception of the UKIP leader, Nigel Farage, no
politician has taken up Mr Symeou's case. Yet, on any impartial reckoning, this
is at least as big an issue as 42-day detention. If it is wrong to intern
someone who has not been found guilty of anything for six weeks, albeit with the
approval of Parliament, it is surely wrong to incarcerate him for 18 months on
the say-so of a foreign judge. When will an MP fight a by-election on that
issue?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 16 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             July 2, 2008 Wednesday

Poland deals new blow to EU treaty;
President says ratification is 'pointless'

BYLINE: Michael Lea

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 582 words


BRUSSELS suffered another major blow to the revived EU constitution yesterday
when Poland's president refused to ratify it.

All 27 EU members must sign up to the Lisbon Treaty for it to go ahead.

Following the no vote in Ireland's referendum last month, EU leaders are
desperate to put pressure on the Irish by getting the 26 other countries to
approve it.

Poland's parliament gave it the green light in April, but the signature of the
country's president, Lech Kaczynski, is essential for the constitution to be
enshrined in Polish law.

He was asked whether, following Irish voters' rejection of the treaty, he would
ratify it.

Mr Kaczynski said: 'This is now pointless.' And in a sign that he would not be
bullied into backing down, he added: 'It is difficult to say how this whole
thing will end. The bloc functioned, functions and will go on functioning.

It's not perfect but such a complicated structure cannot be perfect.' In a
newspaper interview, he also warned EU leaders desperately searching for a way
out of the crisis by sidelining Ireland: 'If one breaks the rule of unanimity
one time it will never exist again.' His remarks, which came as France took over
the EU's sixmonth rotating presidency, won praise from eurosceptics, who are
convinced that Brussels is trying to bully Ireland into voting again.

It also increased pressure on Gordon Brown, who denied British voters a say on
the blueprint, which was rejigged after being rejected by voters in France and
Holland in 2005.

Tory Europe spokesman Mark Francois said: 'President Kaczynski's courage and
leadership in speaking out are a stark contrast to Gordon Brown's complete lack
of either.

'President Kaczynski is speaking up for the rights of

Irish voters. Gordon Brown has rammed this treaty through Parliament to put
pressure on the Irish without any democratic mandate from the British people.

'It would be totally undemocratic if the Irish people were made to vote twice
before the British people got to vote once.' UK Independence Party leader Nigel
Farage said: 'To Euro nationalists, democracy is a hurdle which needs to be
cleared and the will of the people something to be ignored.

Thankfully there are some politicians left with an ounce of decency.' The Eiffel
Tower was lit up with the EU's gold stars yesterday to celebrate France's turn
at the EU presidency.

French president Nicolas Sarkozy warned that voters are losing faith in the
project.

'Something isn't right at all,' he said. 'Europe worries people and, worse
still, citizens are asking if it is not the nation state that protects them
better than the Union.' He will visit Dublin on July 21 to seek a solution.

Poland's refusal to ratify the constitution comes after both the Czech Republic
and Germany delayed ratification until after legal challenges have been decided.
These are currently seen as mere formalities by Brussels but Ireland, and now
Poland, present much bigger problems.

In a sign of the damage done by Mr Kaczyinski, Poland's pro-EU prime minister
Donald Tusk urged him to think again.

Irish prime minister Brian Cowen has been given until the next EU summit in
October to come back with ideas for saving the treaty.

Britain's formal ratification is likely to take place in the next few weeks. A
legal challenge to ratification by tycoon Stuart Wheeler on the grounds that
Gordon Brown failed to hold a referendum was rejected last week, but he plans to
appeal.

m.lea@dailymail.co.uk

19 countries out of the 27 in the EU have ratified the Lisbon treaty

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 2, 2008 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

If only Andy Murray came from the Home Counties

BYLINE: MARK STEEL

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 758 words


They can't make up their mind about Andy Murray, can they? He might be British
and exciting, with the potential to win things, but according to The Daily
Telegraph he "will never make us swoon", because "we liked Tim Henman's Home
Counties stiffness far more than the cursing aggression of this young man".

Because that's what makes great champions - Home Counties stiffness. This is
what links Tiger Woods, Pele, Brian Lara and Billie Jean King - they were all
brought up within five miles of Guildford. And Muhammad Ali was from Hemel
Hempstead, where he would boast: "Float like an accountant, sting like a sales
director for fitted kitchen units."

Then we were told that Murray can't be popular because he "curls his lip" when
he wins a point. What a disgrace. True tennis stars, if they wish to express joy
at such moments, write a letter to the Telegraph, such as "Dear Sir: May I
convey my deepest satisfaction at the outcome of the preceding rally, which
culminated in a victorious lob on my part, the deceptive nature of which rather
puts one in mind of General Gordon's successful assault on Khartoum. Yours
faithfully."

On top of this, Murray didn't deserve our support, it went on, because "dour
Scots are already over-represented in public life". But the bloke won - what's
he supposed to do? Should he insist his French opponent goes through anyway
because there's already a Scottish Prime Minister? Maybe all sporting events
should be decided by which groups are underrepresented in public life, so no
matter who won today's matches the semi-finalists would be a Yeoman of the
Guard, a Muslim lumberjack, an eskimo and a particularly stiff retired admiral
from Sunbury-on-Thames.

For much of Monday's match, many spectators seemed to share the Telegraph's
view. Or maybe they were more like the columnist in the Daily Mirror, who told
us he'd be at the match but wouldn't support Murray as the player was
anti-English. But never mind, because "if the English can survive the Luftwaffe,
the IRA and al-Qa'ida, then I fancy our chances against Andy Murray". So
apparently we're at war with him.

The columnist was prepared to do his part, boasting: "If Murray throws his pongy
sweatbands and they land near me, I shall chuck them straight back." It's
exactly that spirit that drove our lads at the beaches of Normandy. Maybe in 50
years' time all these columnists will meet up in reunions, wearing their medals
and swapping stories such as: "Me and Billy Acocks were face to face with the
buggers, then blow me I've gorn and taken a pongy sweatband right in me blooming
chest. But there was no time for grumbling, I've picked it straight up and
chucked it back at the blighter, caused him to double-fault. I got a Victoria
Cross for that." Discussions on phone-ins on Monday were packed with people
complaining that Murray didn't support England at football so they wouldn't
support him at tennis.

In different ways, the two main objections to Andy Murray, that he supports
Scotland and isn't Home Counties enough, come from a similar place. The people
complaining claim to love Britain, but they only really love a tiny bit of
Britain - their little bit. Even if someone's British, if they're not from the
right region or class or tradition they're still the enemy.

The tennis establishment and much of the Wimbledon crowd loved Henman because to
them he represented their Britain, a Britain of Harvest Festivals, home-made
damson jam, and Cliff Richard; of "Don't go near the housing estate darling,
you'll come back smelling of overalls and milk tokens and ITV"; of campaigning
against the proposed new see-saw in the playground as it will "blight the
traditional character of the area", of agreeing never to refer to the tragic
incident in which the local magistrate was arrested in a public toilet; of
teenagers being detained for six hours by the police for playing with yo-yos
near the war memorial.

The last British Wimbledon men's singles champion, Fred Perry, recalled being in
the shower after winning, and overhearing Tennis Association executives
lamenting that someone of his social class would now be a hero.

A similar attitude means tennis is beyond the reach of most kids, which must be
one reason why we're so dreadful at it. The answer must be that, just as there
are now disabled sports tournaments and a gay Olympics, there should be a stiff
Home Counties Wimbledon, with a final between two stockbrokers, in which the
winner promises to celebrate by filling in the VAT returns for the local branch
of the UK Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              July 1, 2008 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

The perilous joys of middle-aged sex

BYLINE: Thomas Sutcliffe

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 865 words


Do you remember herpes? You'll need to be of a certain age to conjure the
particular memory I have in mind, which is of the spasm of sexual anxiety that
went round when the disease first really made it into the public consciousness,
after the incidence of infections leapt in America. Yikes, I can remember
thinking. Weeping sores (routinely described as "agonising"), no prospect of a
cure, the perpetual moral duty, ever after, to inform prospective sexual
partners of your potentially hazardous condition.

It was attended by the whole paraphernalia of a modern media health scare -
first person confessions by "anonymous" sufferers, dire predictions of future
spread. And then herpes was upstaged by a much more frightening disease - Aids
effortlessly taking top billing as spectre at the orgy. And for a while you
could have been forgiven for thinking that herpes wasn't a problem any more.

It wasn't true, of course. A recent study by New York City's health department
suggested that an astonishing 26 per cent of the city's adult residents are
infected with the herpes virus and the ailment also turned out to be well
represented in the Midlands study which has just revealed that sexually
transmitted infections are on the rise among older people. Genital warts took
the top spot, apparently, accounting for nearly half of the cases, but herpes
came second in driving patients over the age of 45 to attend their local
genito-urinary clinic. These people were certainly old enough to remember the
public health campaigns that attended the first big wave of herpes infections -
before it got pushed into the small print of the health warnings - but it didn't
seem to have done much to protect them.

I couldn't help wondering whether there might be a psychological connection, in
fact - between the endemic wariness of disease that such health campaigns
attempt to promulgate and the kind of irrational relief that occurs when the
gloomier predictions don't seem to be borne out. Could it be that sexually
transmitted infections among over-45s have increased because these patients have
survived at least two big sexual disease scares and - unfortunately for them -
wrongly assumed that it is safe to unclench?

The Health Protection Agency speculated that at least one possible cause for the
doubling of infections was that as the fear of pregnancy disappears, it takes
with it one of the most powerful motives for condom use. The other possibility,
of course, being that older people are not having more unsafe sex than they used
to - just having more sex full stop, an increase in activity that you would
expect to bring a proportionate increase in infections.

I suspect it is the latter - and it isn't just the arrival of Viagra and online
chat rooms that have done it (as some reports suggested) but a sustained and
unyielding behavioural campaign that dwarfs the impact of sporadic health
education programmes. The latter we're inclined to forget as soon as the
advertising fades from the mind, assisted by the human instinct to ignore
unpleasant truths. But nobody could have missed the diffuse lobbying operation
which exists to persuade us that it is our duty to have more sex, more often and
later in life than our parents did.

The social obligation to have sex responsibly - intermittently conveyed by
educational campaigns - is barely audible beneath the blizzard of messages, in
commercials, fiction and the general culture, which encourage us simply to have
sex, and imply that retirement from the game isn't any longer an option.

How very big of you, Jane

"Doing TV commercials has allowed me to take stage roles for which I'm paid very
little," said Jane Horrocks, left, in a recent newspaper interview. Give us a
break, Jane. The logic of this seems to be that if Tesco hadn't come calling,
Horrocks would have been forced wistfully to turn down leading roles on the
London stage, which seems implausible to say the least.

I wonder what her fellow actresses will make of her suggestion that accepting
excellent parts in interesting plays constitutes a kind of charitable outreach
programme.

The truth is surely exactly the other way round: doing the stage roles allows
her, with a clear conscience, to take advertising jobs which earn her a small
fortune.

People rightly dislike the idea that politicians are just a set of
pre-programmed responses, and yet politicians seem deeply reluctant to abandon
the set plays of political life. The other day, for example, David Cameron
greeted the result of the Henley by-election by pointing out that it had been
"disastrous" for Labour. Thanks for that insight, Mr Cameron. Even our dog
understood that much. Wouldn't it have been more entertaining, just for once, to
sidestep the cliches?

If I had been Mr Cameron, I would have congratulated my own candidate on his
victory and then smiled sympathetically and said that, in the circumstances, the
Labour candidate had really done awfully well. Indeed he should be
congratulated, given his party leader's recent poll ratings, on staying 223
votes clear of the UKIP candidate.

Right now, Mr Cameron's condescension would be far more devastating than his
contempt.

t.sutcliffe@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved
