
                               1 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 29, 2008 Monday 6:32 PM GMT

Propaganda and paranoia in Brussels

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 624 words


As the prospect of a drubbing in euro-elections looms ever closer, the European
Parliament's central body (nicknamed the "Polit Bureau" by many staff) is
becoming ever more paranoid and is lavishing ever greater sums of public money
on vanity PR projects.

Parliament officials are refusing to release any viewing figures for EuroparlTV,
the web television channel launched to great fanfare on Sep 17. EPTV will cost
taxpayers £32 million (the cash goes to a private company) over the next four
years, a bill that represents vanity spending of over £9,000 a year on each and
every Euro-MP.

Another rather more mysterious contract, this time for £21 million, has been
awarded to Scholz & Friends (they call themselves an orchestra of ideas), a PR
outfit with very close links to Germany's Christian Democrats.

A separate PR project (this time being done in house) will see the publication
of a hagiographic44 page glossy brochure featuring 58 pictures of Hans-Gert
Pöttering, the European Parliament's German Christian Democrat President.

"One with the Queen, one with Japanese Premier Yasuo Fukada and one with cartoon
figure Bob the Builder," reports Germany's Focus magazine. I can not wait.

Back to EPTV. This clip shows the EU's great and good handing out the gongs
earlier this summer, including one to Angela Merkel for her sterling work to
revive the Constitution in the form of the Lisbon Treaty. Needless to say the
Irish No did not mean a rethink, that is why she talks about paralysis. It is a
representative example of the channel's output. '

EPTV wants "your questions, requests for information and proposals", please
click here to help them out.

EPTV is overseen by the Parliament's "Bureau" (many MEPs and officials cheekily
add the Polit prefix since Mr Pöttering became Parliament's President) and is
managed by fonctionnaires in the Comm Department on day-to-day basis. As Jon
Worth notes, on his Euroblog, EPTV tends to be slavishly corporate (as well very
dreary indeed).

The European Parliament shells out multi-million pound budgets, with contracts
and arrangements shrouded in great secrecy, to private companies for vanity
projects that are of little interest to the public.

Viewing figures for EuroparlTV are not for public consumption, despite repeated
requests.

Meanwhile, the same Parliament has launched a bizarre and paranoid witch-hunt of
Declan Ganley for spending much smaller sums during Ireland's referendum. Funny
that.

As the Parliament spews out more vanity PR and propaganda, it is also gagging
its own officials.

Gawain Towler, of England Expects blog fame, a Parliament staffer - he is press
officer to the UK delegation to the Ind/Dem Group, aka UKIP - has been told to
cease his "ironique et eurosceptique" online commentary or face disciplinary
action.

"The upshot is that I have a formal warning and, if I continue to blog then
'sanctions' may be applied. Given that the sanctions amount to upwards of a four
month docking of wages, I really cannot afford to continue," he writes.

"Now I do not say that I am not in breach of the staff regulations, I am. But it
is odd when one considers that... my job (for UKIP) is to bring the institutions
into disrepute, which I am doing, well if I am any good I should be doing."

Meanwhile, over on the official Paris website of the European Parliament,
Jean-Guy Giraud, a staff official, Head of Communications in France no less,
runs Les Amis du Traité de Lisbonne.

Unlike Gawain, Mr Giraud's tireless opining on behalf of an EU Constitution
Treaty, rejected by his own countrymen, attracts no threats of disciplinary
action.

Parliament officials can parrot the corporate line and run a daily propaganda TV
channel for the institution but not write their own blogs. Funny that.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                          September 27, 2008 Saturday
                                 First Edition

PICK OF THE DAY;
THURSDAY

BYLINE: Peter Conchie

SECTION: THE INFORMATION; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 175 words


Cutting Edge 9pm C4

The heartbreaking story of an eight-year-old girl as she leaves the loving bosom
of her family to commence a three-month programme at a specialist clinic to
treat her anorexia.

Ian Hislop Goes off the Rails 9pm BBC4

After a report in 1963 by Dr Richard Beeching, the chairman of the British
Transport Commission, Harold Macmillan's government closed 2,128 stations, cut
67,000 jobs and lost 9,000 miles of track. Ian Hislop assesses the social and
economic impact of the Beeching axe.

Beautiful People 9.30pm BBC2

Jonathan Harvey's adaptation of Simon Doonan's childhood memoir, the story of
how a lad from suburban Reading emigrated to America to become creative director
of a New York department store. Meera Syal and Peep Show's Olivia Colman star.

Question Time 10.35pm BBC1

There's the potential for a dust-up tonight as the Home Secretary, Jacqui Smith,
looks to out-tough the Tories on terrorism during their conference week, and
squares up to the Liberal Democrat Charles Kennedy and the UK Independence
Party's leader, Nigel Farage.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IF


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 26, 2008 Friday

US will lose status of superpower, says;
German minister;
Finance chief demands sweeping market reform

BYLINE: Ambrose Evans-Pritchard

SECTION: CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 483  words


GERMAN finance minister Peer Steinbrück has slammed Anglo-American capitalism
for endangering global stability in its lust for profit and predicted that the
US would now be toppled as the superpower of international finance.

In a remarkable outburst at the German parliament, Mr Steinbrück said the world
would never be the same after "Black September''. He demanded a sweeping code of
regulations to "civilise the financial markets'' and clamp down on speculators.

Mr Steinbrück announced a swingeing eight-point plan to reorder the global
markets - which will heighten fears in the City of London of interference by the
European Commission.

"The US will lose its superpower status in the global financial system,'' he
said, predicting a new multi-polar order where power is spread across the globe.

"The financial crisis is above all an American problem. The other G7 financial
ministers in continental Europe share this opinion,'' he said, a pointed turn of
phrase that excludes Britain's Alistair Darling.

"This inadequately regulated system is now collapsing, with far-reaching
consequences for the US financial market and contagion effects for the rest of
the world,'' he said.

The current single market commissioner - Irish "Thatcherite'' Charlie McCreevy -
is almost certain to be replaced by a much more dirigiste successor next year.

Senior politicians in France and Germany have in recent weeks called for a
radical shake-up of the market system. A powerful EU faction that has always
been hostile to the City of London - which is known in Brussels as "the casino''
- see this crisis as a rare chance to ram through irreversible changes.

"They want to regulate the capital levels of every firm and partnership, limit
takeovers and regulate asset stripping. In short, they want to regulate the
Anglo-Saxon version of capitalism out of existence,'' said John Whittacker, MEP
and UKIP's economic spokesman.

Mr Steinbrück said the deft response of the world leaders in recent days had
averted catastrophe. "Crisis management worked. We did not have a collapse of
the international financial system,'' he said.

Mr Steinbrück said the drive for short-term profit and huge bonuses in the
Anglo-Saxon world was the root cause of the gravest crisis in decades.
"Investment bankers and politicians in New York, Washington and London were not
willing to give these up.''

Meanwhile, ratings agency Fitch said the vast bail-outs agreed yesterday by the
US Congress do not add significantly to America's public debt of 57pc of GDP
since the money is being used to buy assets, which are backed by collateral.

"You can't just add up these liabilities and treat them the same way as
government debt,'' said Fitch's managing director, Brian Coulton.

Germany itself is no longer a model risk. Fitch said the country has a public
debt of 65pc of GDP, the highest level within the elite group of AAA-rated
nations.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 26, 2008 Friday

ID card without a union flag

BYLINE: Christopher Hope Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 426  words


BRITAIN's first identity card for 60 years was unveiled by Jacqui Smith
yesterday - with no sign of the union flag or mention of the word Britain.

Instead the credit card-sized plastic cards carried a picture of a bull - in
common with other European Union identity cards - as well as five stars drawn
from the stars on the official flag of the EU.

The card is to be initially issued to people from outside the EU, renewing their
permission to stay in Britain as students or on the basis of marriage. Between
50,000 and 60,000 cards, which will initially cost  pounds 30 each, will be
issued by the end of next March and ministers predict one million a year will be
handed out from 2010.

Officials said the image of a bull represented the Greek myth in which Zeus
turns himself into a bull and abducts Europa, a beautiful princess.

Campaigners said it was bizarre that there were not more symbols of Britishness
on the card, given that it will be used as a proof of residence.

Lorraine Mulally, a spokesman for campaigners Open Europe, said: "The use of EU
symbols, instead of national ones, is part of a wider attempt to promote the
idea of a common European citizenship, which EU federalists have been pushing
for some time. The Government seems happy to buy into this.''

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, added: "A British ID card
without a British flag on it?  We don't need or want ID cards in the first
place, free people in a free country don't require them. But to have the
European Union thrust down our throats at the same time is simply a load of old
bull.''

Miss Smith, the Home Secretary, defended the design, insisting that other
countries in the EU did not display their national flags on ID cards. She
pointed out that the pink and blue card displayed the Government's coat of arm.

On the reverse, the four national flowers or plants of the countries that make
up the United Kingdom are etched into the plastic - the rose, thistle, daffodil
and shamrock. The cards contain the individual's name, their photograph, an
expiry date and details of how long they can stay in the country.

Other information includes date and place of birth, gender, nationality, and
whether the bearer is entitled to benefits. Biometric data, including copies of
all of the person's fingerprints, will be stored on a security chip.

The card will be issued to foreign nationals on Nov 25. From next year workers
in restricted areas at airports will need an ID card, which will be made
generally available to British citizens on a voluntary basis from 2011.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          September 25, 2008 Thursday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 675 words


* So it will fall to the French to keep the lights on; all part of our long
march towards a nuclear future. The UK has a history of being very open to
foreign capital, British Energy says, and as good Europeans we can hardly make
too much fuss about the multibillion-pound purchase by EDF of our power plants.
We'll leave that side of things to Ukip. All the same, it will be important to
keep an eye on Gordon's cherished "new generation" of nuclear stations.

Things go wrong. Someone must safeguard the public. That's why many are worried
that the government appears to have been "economical with the actualite " about
its efforts to recruit a sufficient number of nuclear inspectors. Dai Davies MP
asked a number of questions over the summer of Malcolm Wicks, the energy
minister, and was told it is making progress in recruiting staff following
recruitment campaigns begun late last year and in April. Not a problem, the
minister said. But no one has told Alistair Darling, because just a fortnight
ago he informed the TUC that, despite his reluctance to pay more to
public-sector workers, he may well have to throw cash at nuclear inspectors
because too few people are applying. Nothing we say will dissuade them from the
nuclear path, so we won't even try that. But they could get their stories
straight. That would be something.

* For it is a debate we all need to get involved in. On the other hand, we
accept that some families are more nuclear than others. There's Tony Cooper,
father of cabinet minister Yvette, who sits on the board of the Nuclear
Decommissioning Authority as a non-executive director. There is also Andrew
Brown, who is director of communications at the all-conquering, aforementioned
EDF Energy. His older brother is something in the government. It all helps. It
gives perspective.

* For relationships matter: between parties; between the private sector and the
Labour government. Some were a little startled at the Labour gala dinner on
Tuesday when they realised the event was sponsored by United Utilities -
provider of water, electricity and gas - and far from everyone's favourite
within the union movement. But they supped, presumably with a long sort of
spoon.

* So congratulations to EDF, and congratulations to Gate Gourmet, the airline
caterer that sacked 670 staff by megaphone in 2005, causing chaos at Heathrow so
extreme that the passengers all noticed. Things have since calmed down, and so
it is that the firm can celebrate the receipt of a people management award from
the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development and People Management
Magazine. The category in which it excelled: "management of change". It may all
seem a sick joke to the sacked employees who even now are still campaigning for
better compensation but the nasty Texans who once ran the company have gone, and
there does seem to be a general recognition that the leopard's spots, if not
quite changed, are much, much less visible. The sinner repenteth. What joy.

* Congrats also to Transport for London's ad people. The poster for the De
Niro-Pacino film Righteous Kill (strapline: "It's okay to shoot people, as long
as you shoot the right people") looks just fine in Stockwell tube station,
particularly with the inquest into the De Menezes shooting - itself an
MI5-Scotland Yard production - now under way nearby. It has impact; relevance.

* And is there anything to say but well done to Clarity Credit Management,
shortlisted as it is, with so many others, in the Debt Collection Agency of the
Year awards 2008. Where would we be without you? Where would you be without a
stuttering economy?

* But all this begs the question, how should we celebrate in this age of
austerity? Too little merriment will depress morale; too much seems
ostentatious. At the launch of a new Harvey Nicks in Bristol they promise
venison burgers, fish and chips, hot dogs and cupcakes, but there is nothing in
the invite about the traditional Bolly. Yes, these are difficult times, but if
this is the challenge to be faced, so be it.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           September 23, 2008 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

Wasteful NHS;
LETTERS

SECTION: Pg. 60

LENGTH: 198 words


WHILE in the European Parliament in Brussels last week, I was met with the usual
array of invitations to drinks receptions that pile up in MEPs' letterboxes.

These are always put swiftly into my rubbish bin, but on this occasion one
caught my eye. The invitation was to a reception hosted by the Brussels office
of the NHS Confederation. We're always being told that health is one of the few
remaining areas of government policy over which the EU holds no sway.

If that is so, why on earth does the NHS Confederation need a Brussels office,
with the stated aim of 'influencing EU policies in the interests of the NHS'?
Why does it need to hold drinks receptions 'to discuss EU developments impacting
upon the NHS'? Or is it the case that we are being deceived, yet again, when we
are told the EU has no competence in health matters? If it truly doesn't, would
it not be better if our government, and the quangocrats who run the NHS, simply
told the EU to mind its own business? Meanwhile, I wonder how many hip
replacements could be funded from the money used to pay for an office in
Brussels that the NHS should not need? ROGER KNAPMAN MEP, UKIP -- South West
Counties, Newton Abbot, Devon..

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 21, 2008 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Nothing on TV?Thank Brussels for Channel EU

BYLINE: By Jason Groves

SECTION: NEWS; 10

LENGTH: 401  words


IF YOU want to see how the European Parliament can squander millions then tune
in to its own TV station, coming to taxpayers at a cost of GBP 7million.

The station is just a small part of a multi-million-pound expansion drive that
has been slammed as "arrogant empire building".

Major works likely to cost tens of millions of pounds are planned at the
parliament's sites in Brussels, Luxembourg and Strasbourg.

These will include hundreds of new offices, restaurants and other facilities and
a museum of European history in Brussels, which could give traditional history
an EU-friendly slant.

The revelations are likely to spark fresh questions about why the parliament
needs three separate headquarters.

Most parliamentary sittings are in Brussels but in a concession to the French,
MEPs also meet once a month in Strasbourg, at a cost of GBP 150million a year.
There are also major offices in Luxembourg.

MEP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, called the expansion
wasteful, unnecessary and arrogant. "We do not need three parliaments, " he
said. "We should be looking at retrenchment, not expansion.

"The idea of this lot building a museum of European history should alarm anyone
with a real love of the subject. The last president of the parliament used to
say the First and Second World Wars were really European civil wars which
happened because we had nation states and which would not happen again provided
we pressed ahead with EU integration.

"I have no doubt that this museum will be spouting exactly the same kind of
one-sided nonsense." In Brussels, the European Parliament is about to open one
new building and is in talks to rent an additional floor of another. It is also
planning a second creche for 100 children of MEPs and staff.

In Luxembourg, it is to start work on an extension to its building while also
renting 200 offices nearby. The expansion is so big an "environmentally
friendly" bus is being bought to transport staff.

In Strasbourg, it is spending millions to repair the collapsed roof in the
chamber where MEPs sit.

The European Parliament declined to comment last night.

Details might be found on its internet-based Europarltv which launched on
Wednesday.

But you would have to trawl through exciting programmes such as "How does the
European Parliament Plenary work?" and "Industry Committee paves way for new
legislation to boost investment in renewable energy sources".

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PRIME TIME: A Euro MP dozes

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 21, 2008 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Parliament plans anger EU opponents

SECTION: NEWS; 10

LENGTH: 159  words


THE European Parliament last night launched a multimillion pound drive to
acquire hundreds of new offices, a TV station and even a museum of EU history.

The works, which will be at its three sites in Brussels, Luxembourg and
Strasbourg, are likely to spark fresh questions about why the Parliament needs
HQs in three countries.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "This is wasteful, unnecessary and arrogant. We
should be looking at retrenchment, not expansion." In Brussels, the Parliament
is about to open one major new building and is in talks to rent an additional
floor of another.

It is also looking to build a museum of European history and a second creche for
100 children of MEPs and staff.

In Luxembourg, it is about to start work on a major extension to its existing
building, and it has signed a contract to rent a nearby building of 200 offices.

In Strasbourg, the Parliament is spending millions on repairs following the
collapse of part of the roof.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                          September 20, 2008 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

Clement Crabbe;
More from our columnist, the scabrous Clement Crabbe, of The Rockpools Register,
who takes a wry, whimsical look at a world increasingly beyond parody

SECTION: Pg. 30

LENGTH: 826 words


THIS Wall Street banking con -- 'the global', as John Prescott calls it -- is
another triumph for the keep-fit brigade. Crabbe could have told you that Dick
Fuld, head of Lehman Brothers, was a wrong 'un. He plays squash.

Colleagues of over-proud Fuld have been telling newspaper profile-writers how
'driven' and 'competitive' their former boss was. Both on and off the squash
court he was a right little martinet, a tiresome piece of work who had sparse
fun in life and became too big for his boots.

Fuld was a typical squash player. These maniacs like to show off their hairy
knees and suntans by wearing shorts almost as white as their bleached teeth.
They love hitting the ball hard and leaping around the place, yelling: 'Out!'
Squash players seldom notice what else is happening in the world -- not least
the terrible squeaking their rubber soles make on the floor, or the smell of
sweat clagging every squash court. Invariably cheats, too. They boast about
their health and keep telling the rest of us to 'take more exercise'. Yet they
themselves are often the first into the grave, beaten to it only by the joggers.

Squash players are the sort of men who, in the dressing room afterwards, towel
themselves down with much vigorous friction, as though they are attached to some
Industrial Revolution loom. It's all deeply un-English and creepy. They are
fixated on their squash ladders. They insist that 'winning is everything' and
that you have to get to the T in the middle of the court if you are going to
succeed. The most important thing in their world is the colour of the tiny dot
in their odd balls which soon reach the temperature and consistency of baked
dumplings.

Squash players are decidedly queer and this Fuld man was a classic of the
genre..

Never entrust your life savings to someone who keeps a sports grip in his study.

WE SEEM to have a yard fight between the RSPCA and Crufts.

The urbanised hand-wringers of the RSPCA, whose stupid campaign against fox
hunting caused only greater suffering among foxes, say Crufts is cruel. Crufts
growls that this is nonsense. The judge in this contest is the British public.

And look, she is weighing up the two competitors. She is appraising their
relative merits. And yes! She has made her decision and has pointed to Crufts!
Crufts is our winner! As they say in the City, 'sell, sell, sell' the RSPCA.

CAN someone please fetch the oil can and squirt the voice of Hank Paulson,
America's Treasury Secretary? Veteran motorist Edith Marmite heard Paulson's
husky tones on radio the other day and immediately knew what was wrong.

Marmite herself once had the same problem. These days, happily, her mechanic
(and childhood sweetheart) Phyllis, who calls her 'skipper', makes sure
everything is fully lubricated. But there was a time when Marmite's tangerine
Mini Metro had leaky gasket seals and needed a squirt of Castrol GTX. If Paulson
isn't careful he could find his voicebox seizing up altogether.

MUCH though he dislikes David Cameron's Conservatives, Right-wing thinker Dr
Jonathan Furey will be slogging along to Birmingham for the party's conference
there next weekend.

Birmingham! Dr Furey, selfappointed keeper of the Thatcherite flame, has not
been to that part of the world since those happy days when he would visit Enoch
in Wolverhampton for a few ruminative pipes and an evening of West Indian joke
swopping.

Dr Furey has accepted invitations to speak at a number of fringe meetings during
the Tory conference. Our ginger hero will be the star turn at an evening debate
titled Robert Mugabe -- The Edward Heath Of Africa. He hopes to deliver his
popular lecture Memories Of The 1970s: Mateus Rose, Norman St John-Stevas And
Me. There is also dark talk of an '8am briefing' with fifth columnists from UKIP
, but Dr Furey regards the term 'working breakfast' with watery-eyed suspicion.
He has said he will attend only if they serve him a plate of steaming kedgeree,
washed down with bullshot.

FOR naval officers, it is time to stock up on tennis rackets and tins of
de-icing spray from Halfords. The Russians, having returned to their natural
state of grunting malevolence, are laying claim to the wastelands of the Arctic.

Their president, that Medvedev man who looks like UKIP's Nigel Farage, made a
speech this week saying they will simply announce that the Arctic is theirs, and
wait for another nation to say: 'No it's not, we bagged it first.' The Royal
Navy, clearly, will have to send a frigate. If it still has one.

Commodore Guy Pedalo, officer in charge of naval deployments, was ringing round
various shipyards to see if anyone had a warship to spare.

Meanwhile, preparations continue.

Admiral Basil Angostura, purplenosed chief of Home Defence, has asked
Lillywhites to send him all the old Slazenger tennis rackets it has.

'Snow shoes!' explains Admiral Basil, affixing skiing goggles as he enters the
walk-in freezer store at his local Mac Fisheries shop for a spot of Arctic
Circle training..

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 20, 2008 Saturday

Stop sending out officers to every crime, watchdog tells police chief

BYLINE: Nick Allen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 504  words


A POLICE chief has been criticised by a government watchdog for dispatching
officers to every crime.

Roger Baker, the Chief Constable of Essex, was censured for his conscientious
approach to crime fighting because it was said to put an unnecessary strain on
police resources.

The rebuke came in a report by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary, which
said Mr Baker's insistence on sending officers to see every victim of a crime,
and taking a statement, took up too much time.

The report said: "While attending every crime is a highly effective method of
engagement, it is felt by a number of staff interviewed that taking a statement
at each crime is not always necessary and can be time-consuming.''

Mr Baker defended his methods, which he believes are what the public want.

He said: "We will continue with our policing style which includes attending all
crimes, increasing police visibility, opening more police stations, tackling
crime robustly and bringing offenders to justice.

"The public are our biggest partner and we will continue to listen to them and
work with them to provide the service they ask for.'' Local politicians threw
their weight behind the chief constable,  and said a visit from police was the
least a tax-paying victim of crime could expect.

John Baron, the Conservative MP for Billericay, said: "I hear too many
complaints from constituents that they do not hear from police when reporting a
crime.

"What Roger Baker introduced was a breath of fresh air and for civil service
bureaucrats to criticise it is very wrong.''

Bob Spink, the UKIP MP for Castle Point, said: "I very warmly congratulate Roger
Baker on his policy, which is bearing fruit.''

Mr Baker joined the Essex force in 2005 and has introduced policies to bolster
front-line policing, focusing on making officers a more visible presence on the
streets and targeting low-level crime like vandalism and criminal damage. On his
first day he demanded that his officers make 600 additional arrests within a
week.

He recently unveiled plans to put an extra 110 officers on the streets by March
and 600 over the next five years.

However, he has been a thorn in the side of the Home Office, criticising the
lack of officers on the streets and the fact that victims are given crime
numbers instead of being visited personally.

He predicted recently that beat officers could disappear within a decade as
constables are replaced by community support officers who do not have powers to
arrest and are restricted to handing out fines for minor misdemeanours.

An Essex Police spokesman said that in the past two years the style of policing
in the county had contributed to there being 13,000 fewer victims of crime.

He added: "We aim to reduce crime and the fear of crime and bring offenders to
justice.''

Dominic Grieve, the shadow home secretary, said: "This is a damning indictment
of the Government's centralising, target-driven approach to policing. It is
essential that we have officers where the public want them, on the streets
fighting crime.''

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           September 19, 2008 Friday
                                  1ST Edition

Farewell to Europe;
LETTERS

SECTION: Pg. 77

LENGTH: 84 words


IT SEEMS the EU accounts won't be signed off again -- the 14th year on the trot.

Membership of the EU is fast becoming the biggest issue in British politics.
Labour and Lib Dems are happy with it while the Conservatives, a true europhile
party, pretend to be eurosceptic.

These three frauds will get the shock of their lives in the EU elections next
June. The number of people I meet who say they will be voting UKIP suggests the
antis will have a landslide victory under PR.

JACK KELLEY, Doncaster, S. Yorks..

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           September 19, 2008 Friday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 688 words


Labour is "finished", and so maybe it's time for Nick Clegg's "new type of
government". Few details so far from Clegg himself, but for those eager to know
how good the prospects are and how the new politics works, a few indications
from Chris Davies, one of the party's senior MEPs. "The Liberal Democrat
leadership must change its approach to the next European elections or the party
risks humiliation," he said in an email to activists, later reprinted at
conference. "The 2009 elections will see the Liberal Democrats lose seats in the
European parliament unless the party injects passion and aggression into its
campaigning style." We can learn from Ukip, he said. "In 2004 it had a simple
anti-European message, it courted controversy, and it used the backing of media
personalities to secure publicity." But all the same, they are "traitors", so
let's not forget to bash them. "A bit of name-calling will do no harm." The way
forward is "delighting in controversy, and going for the anti-European jugular",
and if that sounds a bit like the old politics, so be it. The future so often
looks just like the past.

Never dull at the Equality and Human Rights Commission where board members met
yesterday to consider one year of setting the world on its proper course - and
more controversially, the hours worked and outside interests pursued by its
chairman, Trevor Phillips. The Mail on Sunday alleged a conflict of interest
because Phillips's jointly owned consultancy, the Equate Organisation, was paid
by Channel 4 to advise it following the Big Brother racism farrago involving
potty-mouthed contestants and the Indian actress Shilpa Shetty. For all the
fevered anticipation and claims that his three-day-a-week chairmanship was under
threat, the upshot was that the board told him to carry on the good work.
Sources report that the hyperactive Phillips said he is less likely to get
involved in that sort of private deal in the future anyway, not least because he
apparently has a new hobby horse, providing financial products to folk in South
Africa and the US who otherwise would struggle to get credit. Bear Stearns did
that, as we know. He'll apparently do it better.

Gordon's review of the intelligence preceding the Omagh bombing came as little
surprise to those who have long harboured doubts about GCHQ. Do they gather
enough information, we wonder? How much do they pass on? We hoped to raise these
issues at the weekend, but heard nothing from our man with the ear trumpet for
almost 24 hours. "We don't monitor calls on Sunday," he explained. Of course,
the day of rest.

Is Condoleezza Rice, who was often spoken of as a potential Republican
presidential candidate, fully on board with the Sarah Palin phenomenon? She
seems to be dropping hints that she might be still available, for now, or
perhaps when the cavalcade rolls again in four years? On her recent trip to
Libya on Air Force Two, the napkins that came with the drinks bore the great
seal of the US; except that instead of E pluribus unum "From many, one", the
legend read E pluribus unam . Most took this to be a misprint, but Latin
scholars noted that unam is a feminine form. From many, one woman, is it? Which
one?

Proof that not everything that Gordon Ramsay touches turns to gold can be found
on the Costa del Sol, where a struggling troupe of chefs and an obviously
beleaguered owner benefited from his guiding hand in 2006. Horrified by its
pretentious cuisine - particularly the prawns in chocolate - Ramsay tried to
knock La Parra into shape with a more basic menu that would appeal to families
who flock to the Andalusian resort of Nerja. Alas, Gordon's efforts came to
naught, for La Parra's London owner has since fled back to the UK, and the
restaurant has been taken back by its original owner, a former socialist mayor
of the town who always said he would reclaim the place. Gordon swore and ranted,
as best he knows how. But some things you can't change.

Finally, PR Week says Pfizer, the drug company, has appointed two media agencies
in what could be a major relaunch for Viagra. How long will it last? All
depends.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                          September 18, 2008 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Pandora

BYLINE: HENRY DEEDES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 678 words


Tory donor: I'm still hedging my bets

As the Conservatives prepare for their autumn conference, one of their most
generous benefactors is still threatening to throw his considerable clout behind
another party.

Stuart Wheeler, the rabidly Eurosceptic spread betting magnate who has poured an
estimated £5m into Tory coffers over the past seven years, will today give a
speech at the annual James Goldsmith memorial lecture in which he will urge the
public to vote against the Tories unless they can convey a more Eurosceptic
message.

"It's essential the Conservatives make two key manifesto pledges on Europe
before the European elections next year," he tells me.

"They need to promise that if the Lisbon Treaty hasn't become law by the time
they get to power, they will hold a referendum on withdrawing. And they need to
pledge to renegotiate our European relationship, then hold a referendum on
whether the negotiations were sufficient."

"I've always been a loyal Tory supporter and I'd prefer to back them but on this
occasion, if they refuse to make those pledges, I'll be encouraging people to
vote for another party."

Wheeler was courted last year by Ukip leader Nigel Farage, whom he described as
"clever and articulate".

He added: "They may have had their problems but I've no doubt they could sort
them out."

De Niro's Ray of sunshine

Robert De Niro recently walked off the set of Mel Gibson's comeback film, Edge
Of Darkness, citing (that old chestnut) "creative differences". Since then, the
producers of the project, an adaptation of the BBC series of the same name, have
drafted in cockney tough nut Ray Winstone to fill in.

But if being replaced has left a nasty taste in De Niro's mouth, he wasn't
showing it the other night.

"I am really pleased about it," he told me warmly. "[Winstone] is a great actor
- and I think it should be a good production."

Sadly, when I asked what went wrong on set, his publicist inevitably intervened,
saying: "No, no that's enough. I think he's just clarified it."

Spread not cred

Bang! In a cloud of safety pins and tartan trews, there goes the last-remaining
slice of the Sex Pistols' credibility.

The band's lead singer, Johnny Rotten, has agreed to star in a new advert for
British butter brand, Country Life.

"We don't think enough people know Country Life is the only major British butter
brand and John gets the message through loud and clear," says a brand spokesman.

Poor Sid Vicious must be turning in his grave.

Back to work for Zane

The executives at London radio station Xfm recently suspended its scruffy
breakfast show presenter, Alex Zane, for playing a "joke" song on air about
rape.

A fat lot of good their punishment seems to have done. "It was like being on
holiday," he tells me cheerfully. "I slept in a lot, watched DVDs and then went
back to work.

"Everything I said at the time still stands," he went on. "I think it was all
fairly pointless."

No jokes from Adrian

When John Prescott thwacked a voter in 2001, Tony Blair managed to brush it off
with a wink and a "John is John".

The Lib Dems are yet to raise a giggle over Adrian "the commander" Sanders's
little scuffle with former Lib Dem press officer Mark Littlewood, which has been
the highlight of the party conference. His press office has refused to comment,
though Sanders will apparently get to keep his job in the Whips' office.

Kane gives turncoats stick

London Fashion Week might have suffered a disastrous "brain drain" of designers
this year, but thankfully one of our brightest young prospects, Christopher
Kane, won't be joining them any time soon.

"No definitely not," he told me at his show's Bombay Sapphire-sponsored
after-party. "That's not going to happen. I owe a lot to London." This year, a
number of British designers have snubbed London in order to preview their
collections in New York, a move Kane disdains.

"It isn't fair really - they have so much money and support over there," he
added. "It's a huge platform. At the end of the day everyone always goes where
the money is."

EMAIL pandora@independent.co.uk

WEBSITE www.independent.co.uk/pandora

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 12, 2008 Friday

Clash of symbols over jolly ode and EU flag waving

BYLINE:  David Charter Brussels

SECTION: OVERSEAS NEWS; Pg.48

LENGTH: 344 words


The Ode to Joy, a snappy motto and a waving flag: this is the recipe for a proud
and happy European citizen, MEPs have decided. The European Parliament will
promote greater use of EU symbols to help people to identify with the union -
even though the flag, motto and anthem have been criticised as the trappings of
statehood.

Scrapping references to the symbols was cited by Angela Merkel, the German
Chancellor, and others as a key difference between the EU constitution -
rejected by French and Dutch voters in 2005 - and its successor, the Lisbon
Treaty. Their disappearance from the treaty was named as a reason by some
governments, including Britain's, as to why referendums were not necessary on
the new document.

David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary, told the House of Commons last July that:
"It is good that the symbols, flags and anthems, which distracted attention from
the discussion of the European constitutional treaty, are done away with so that
we can focus on what will make the EU useful to this country - jobs, climate and
energy, the issues that matter to ordinary people."

The symbols have their drawbacks. MEPs want the Ode to Joy - the finale of
Beethoven's 9th Symphony - to be played at more official occasions. It was also
used to celebrate the birthday of Hitler and became the anthem of Ian Smith's
Rhodesia. The motto, to be published on all material from the European
Parliament, is "United in Diversity", which might not catch on.

MEPs are undaunted. "Symbols are vital elements of any communication process,"
they said. "(They) convey an emotional image of the underlying values of the
organisations they represent."

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "We were told that the
symbols would disappear ... now they are trying to ram them down our throats."

Richard Corbett, a Labour MEP, said: "They are alleged by Eurosceptics to be the
trappings of statehood, but if that is true then the International Olympic
Committee has the trappings of statehood because it has a flag and an anthem."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          September 10, 2008 Wednesday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 686 words


"I never comment on rumours and I have no knowledge of any BNP advisory council
meetings," says our good friend Ashley Mote, the real-time MEP for the
south-east of England, one-time convict and benefit fraudster. And that is a
shame because we had hoped he would clear up the issue brought to light by
Searchlight magazine, courtesy of a leaked set of minutes from July's meeting of
the high command within the BNP. Time was tight, the magazine tells us, but the
documentation apparently shows that they made time to discuss "an approach by
Ashley Mote to head the BNP candidates list for the south-east in next year's
European elections". Some were up for it, as they say, arguing that the addition
of Mote - once a star of Ukip, now independent - would "rejuvenate the party",
plagued as it is by infighting and dwindling membership. But others, according
to the record, were more wary because they "did not trust Mote" to stick with
them for long if they facilitated his re-election.

"The upshot was that the advisory council voted to reject Mote's offer on the
grounds that his conviction would result in adverse publicity and prove
detrimental to the party's reputation," reveals Searchlight. So the pot rejected
the kettle. Isn't that a curious state of affairs?

But then one must consider that now is indeed the time for the BNP to think of
reputation management; especially as the party now plans to march its steel
toecapped boot into the cultured environs of Hampstead. One Stephen Dorman will
contest a council byelection there on September 25. He already has a profile of
sorts, as the man who sells gollywogs in Camden market. Their man inevitably
dislikes immigrants but it won't be a single-issue campaign, as he also tells
the Hampstead and Highgate Express that he will ask many questions of the
electorate, such as why are there so many minority arts events, and shouldn't we
restrict the activities of gay men on Hampstead Heath. He'll get the answers on
the 25th. Hard to believe he'll like them.

Meanwhile, they take their pleasures as they can at the TUC in Brighton. Some of
the union chiefs enjoy the tradition of winding up their colleagues. Others
focus time and concentration on winding up the BBC. It was in this spirit that
Paul Kenny, general secretary of the GMB, informed one interviewer of a decision
to cut back on the supply of bread rolls when union bosses dine out with Gordon.
"Is that an economy measure to save money on the meal," the reporter asked him.
"No, it is to prevent people throwing them at the PM," Kenny replied. They must
laugh, and we must let them. Their world is too cruel otherwise.

We find ourselves taken to task by Andrew Motion, who has no specific issue with
yesterday's report of his more negative recollections of life as poet laureate
but says we might also have focused on the positive. "Yes, parts of the job are
difficult, but other parts have been very rewarding," he tells us. "Yes, I did
stop writing for a while, but in the last year I've written more than I normally
write in five." We still don't know if the Queen had time for any of it but as
fans, we welcome the revelation that Andrew has his mojo back. Have a care not
to lose it again.

Wasn't it admirable that the Southampton to Isle of Wight ferry service kept
going over the weekend, overcoming wind and rain as well as issues unrelated to
the elements. And here we have in mind the poor official who tells how he was
deputed to compel the singer Grace Jones - en route to a music festival on the
island - to abide by rules that say passengers must leave their parked cars for
safety reasons and travel on the public deck. Comply she would not, he told us,
and only after frantic radio contact between the crew and senior sorts at the
ferry firm did officials resolve to give up the fight and to sail with the
singer in her vehicle. Order was restored. The ferry left dock. Grace eventually
took to the stage some hours later and to brilliant effect we understand, but
then this is hardly surprising. It was, by our man's account, her second great
performance of the day.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                            September 7, 2008 Sunday
                                  SP3 Edition

Forget Andorra, Capellos England would have struggled to beat the Dog and Duck

BYLINE: PATRICK COLLINS

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 893 words


AS THE final whistle sounded and the England players attempted some small,
self-conscious celebration, the travelling supporters burst into a clatter of
applause. And the old truth asserted itself: when it comes to international
football, England can fool most of the people, most of the time.

Sluggishly uninspired and miserably lacking invention, they scarcely rose above
the level of the cynical, irritating, ludicrously limited opponents in front of
them. Had Joe Cole not arrived to settle the issue with a burst of decent
technique and common sense, then the embarrassment might have been far more
severe.

Impossible to be sure, since there are so many depressing contenders, but the
first 45 minutes may have been among the worst that England have endured in
their long history of international football.

They performed without wit or width, pace or purpose against a side which might
have struggled against the Dog and Duck. In the stadium where Christie and
Gunnell lifted the spirits of the nation in 1992, this shambles of an England
team demonstrated precisely why they languish so far behind the leaders of world
and European football.

On the day before the match, captain John Terry had trotted out the tried and
tested set of dim platitudes: The fans spend a lot of money following us ...
blah, blah ... theyve got to get behind us ... blah, blah ... were determined to
get things right ... blah, blah, blah. They all know the lines, but that is
where their knowledge ends.

In truth, the fans were incredibly tolerant throughout that dreadful first half.
Not that tolerance is the description which leaps to mind when Englands
followers gather en masse. Before the match, the slopes of Montjuic were
littered with swarms of fat, middle-aged men in shorts; swilling, sweating and
raucously swearing in the mazy, late summer evening.

Inside the stadium there was a small, pre-match burst of No Surrender to the
IRA, and the chant was repeated at intervals through the game. Then there was
the unspeakable band, the pseudo-patriotic airs and the endless, dreary
renditions of The Great Escape. Imagine the UKIP annual conference improbably
transported to Europe, and you have the picture.

And who were England playing? Why, a country which has won just one match in its
history; a land so small you could carpet it. A team of plumbers, electricians,
civil servants and cobblers. I may have made up that bit about cobblers, but
again, you get the picture.

And a team, moreover, without the smallest smattering of ambition. Andorra
treated the halfway line as if it were mined. Whenever they crossed it, they
winced an apology at the bench. But their approach was scarcely a surprise. I
doubt Fabio Capellos team talk included the phrases: Theyll be coming at you in
waves or its just like facing Brazil.

Instead, he possibly suggested ways of stretching and distorting a 10-man
defence, of exploiting the space his team would undoubtedly be given, of
utilising their superior strength, fitness and technique. Well, either they
werent listening or he didnt make himself clear. Because there was no cohesion,
no invention, nothing to suggest that the team was in any way worthy of its
pretensions. Wayne Rooney remained a heavy-footed stranger to his real form,
Stewart Downing was a flitting irrelevance and Frank Lampard, ploddingly
predictable, reminded us just how important is Steven Gerrard to the English
cause.

Capello becoming increasingly Italian; shouting, cursing, gesticulating at his
woeful charges. He may have sensed that a degree of criticism was coming his
way. As England continued to perform like some hugely ponderous heavyweight,
swinging roundhouse haymakers at a sitting target, he began to flap his arms in
exasperation.

Just before half-time, he turned to his assistant Stuart Pearce and said,
unmistakably: What do you think? Pearce gave him a look which said, equally
unmistakably: Dont ask me, matey. Youre the bloke whos getting a fortune to
coach this dross.The interval statistics were enlightening: England had enjoyed
81 per cent of possession, which had yielded them seven shots, none on target.
It was a pathetic return for their pointless endeavours.

We must assume that Capello harangued them ferociously in the dressing room.
Certainly his patience was exhausted long before the prescribed 15 minutes,
because he sent them out to face the crowds discontent for a full five minutes.
On they shambled, like schoolboys who have been sent to the playground with
instructions that they mustnt go home until further notice.

And, in a sense, it worked. For perhaps 15 minutes there was a touch of urgency,
an appreciation of just how poorly they had played, a realisation of
responsibilities. Joe Cole treated the opposition as Andorra, and not as an
Italian team on a good day, and his goals were reward for sharp responses and
intelligent reactions.

But those goals did not hide the flaws and the faults. Indeed, the arrival of
David Beckham in the last 10 minutes was less a strategy, more a confession of
desperation. Capello knew that his England had made absurdly hard work of
overcoming a desperately poor side. He knew that other teams, most obviously
Croatia, would surely make them suffer.Yet the crowd applauded, and the players
gratefully returned that applause. As I said at the start; most of the people,
most of the time.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALL TOGETHER NOW: Fabio Capello leads the England bench in a fruitless
appeal for a free-kick

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                            September 7, 2008 Sunday
                                  MS2 Edition

We don't sponsor any political party;
Letters

SECTION: Pg. 62

LENGTH: 58 words


Black Dog said last week that the British Humanist Association is sponsoring the
UK Independence Party's rally at Bournemouth. We have an information stand at
the rally, as we do at other party conferences, but we are not sponsoring it. As
a registered charity, we do not support any political party.

Hanne Stinson, British Humanist Association (Email)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                            September 7, 2008 Sunday
                                   HI Edition

UKIP aide 'terrorised'

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 149 words


A FORMER top aide to UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage broke down in
tears yesterday after revealing she had received 'threatening' phone calls
accusing of her of being 'a whore'.

Annabelle Fuller, 26, claimed she was the victim of a two-year smear campaign
aimed at undermining Mr Farage.

She said the calls and an 'irrevocable breakdown in working relationships with
my closest colleagues' had led her to quit as Mr Farage's spin doctor.

She told The Mail on Sunday: 'I have been terrified. Absolutely terrified. I've
had years of people writing abuse about me and saying abusive things - purely
because I was loyal to the leadership of the party.

'People tried to get at Nigel by attacking me.' Mr Farage defended Miss Fuller
yesterday, saying: 'She is a bloody good writer and a very good press officer.

'She decided to move on because she got p***** off with politics. I don't blame
her.'

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                            September 7, 2008 Sunday
                                   FB Edition

UKIP girl in tears over menacing phone calls

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 362 words


A FORMER top aide to UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage broke down in
tears yesterday after revealing she had received ' threatening' telephone calls
accusing of her of being ' a `the phone calls and an 'irrevocable breakdown in
working relationships with my closest colleagues' had led her to quit as Mr
Farage's spin doctor.

She told The Mail on Sunday: 'I have been terrified. Absolutely terrified.

I've had years of people writing abuse about me and saying abusive things -
purely because I was loyal to the leadership of the party. People tried to get
at Nigel by attacking me.' Mr Farage defended Ms Fuller yesterday, saying: 'She
is a bloody good writer and a very good Press officer.

She decided to move on because she got p***** off with politics. I don't blame
her.' His defence comes after UKIP's annual conference in Bournemouth was tarred
by a feud between Mr Farage, leader since September 2006, and his critics in the
party.

In his main conference speech to delegates, Mr Farage vowed to root out 'half a
dozen people who wish us ill'.

Ms Fuller joined UKIP in Brussels as a researcher in October 2004. She said she
joined because she was passionately committed to its key aim of pulling the UK
out of the EU.

She said it was after she moved in June 2006 to handle Press inquires for Mr
Farage and his party at Westminster that the abusive calls began. On one
occasion an anonymous caller phoned her at 3am and accused her of being 'a
whore'.

'I don't know who that was,' she said.

'I never reported it to the police because I was told that's what happens in
politics and these people were doing it not to get at me, but at Nigel.' The
calls continued even after she left her job at UKIP in July this year.

'It's like trying to stab a dead person,' sobbed Ms Fuller. 'I could have made a
big deal about it but I have my career in front of me.' Ms Fuller said she
decided to go public because she thought the calls were part of a wider plot to
undermine Mr Farage.

'I heard they were trying to overthrow Nigel and I thought I'd let people know
what they are really like,' she said.

'You know what respect I have for Nigel. He has been a good boss and a good
friend.'

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TERRIFIED: Annabelle Fuller says she was forced to quit

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 7, 2008

Loves and hates

BYLINE: Patrick Moore

SECTION: SEVEN; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 498  words


POLITICAL CORRECTNESS I detest it in all respects. Subsequently this includes
resentment for most politicians. I'd like to give my thoughts on the present
government, but

I probably can't use that sort of language in a family newspaper. UKIP, whilst
having a long way to go, is our only hope.

BROWN BREAD Awful stuff. It was an obstinate childhood grudge that I never
really got over. I will simply not have brown bread anywhere near my plate or
palate.

FEMALE RADIO ANNOUNCERS

I don't drive a car these days, but when

I used to, I always found it very hard to hear what they were saying because
their voices are too faint, or aren't as clear as men's. Even the ones on Radio
4. You don't mind saying these things when you're old.

BACKGROUND MUSIC As a music-lover and composer, I am repeatedly annoyed by this
modern obsession with awful music played everywhere, from the introductions of
television programmes to the noise you hear getting into an elevator.

PERFECT PITCH AND

PERFECT TIME

Whilst I hold no personal resentment towards people who possess perfect pitch,
it has always grated on me, mainly because I was never able to acquire it. But
then again, I was never taught how to play music either.

MECHANICAL THINGS THAT DON'T WORK

I have had too many bad experiences with contraptions not doing the things I
wanted them to. Despite being fond of the internet, I'm not too good with
computers, to be honest. Most of my writings and certainly all of my books are
written up on a typewriter.

READING It's one of those simple and significant pleasures which I have always
enjoyed, and luckily, I am still able to. Obviously I would not have been able
to publish so many books without a hunger for reading - on just about
everything.

SEAFOOD I used to eat it profusely and still adore it, despite my appetite
shrinking in later years. I first gained a real fondness for it during my
service in

the war - we seemed to come across it quite a lot. My home-made seafood salads
have proven very popular, or at least I like to think so.

TENNIS Aside from cricket, I have always been very fond of tennis,

which I played actively for many years.

I played the sport to quite a regular level up until the late 1970s when I
suffered an injury.

THE SKY As everyone knows,

the stars, moon and sky at night have long filled me with joy. Whilst I'm unable
to visit my observatory as much as I'd like to these days, nothing gives me
greater pleasure than a clear summer's evening in Sussex.

CATS I have two lovely cats - one is seven and one is three - who've blessed me
with excellent company. Cats are wonderful creatures that have been with me all
my life. One of my worst childhood memories was when one of my cats died. He was
one of my first loves and used to curl up to me on my shoulder. At first I
thought he was simply away

on one of his odysseys around the neighbourhood and would wander back soon. He
used to roam around a lot, but the day I realised he wasn't coming back it was
simply awful.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      September 7, 2008 Sunday 2:26 PM GMT

Whipped: weekend edition

BYLINE: By Alex Singleton

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 184 words


The best from the blogosphere and beyond

1. Guido Fawkes looks at Polly Toynbee's change of heart over Gordon Brown.

2. The Devil's Kitchen explains the infighting between UKIP's two camps.

3. Labour MP Frank Field calls for limits on non-EU immigration.

4. Mick Fealty examines whether the Tory plans for internet campaigning will
work.

5. Edzard Ernst asks whether homeopaths are betraying medical ethics.

6. Fraser Nelson on the Coffee House blog isn't impressed by the British
reaction to Sarah Palin...

7. ...while James Forsyth talks about the threat to Brown from the sidelined
Stephen Carter.

8. A campaign promoting tedious arguments against faith schools is getting
going.

9. Samizdata analyses the anti-import mentality of an otherwise sound television
chef.

10. And, finally, Madsen Pirie highlights further evidence why buying Fairtrade
coffee is counterproductive.

Full coverage of UK politics
Three Line Whip home

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           September 6, 2008 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Rumours, plotting, even a BNP link - is the party over for Ukip?;
A brutal power struggle will overshadow this weekend's annual conference. By
James Macintyre

BYLINE: James Macintyre

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1092 words


Three years ago, the United Kingdom Independence Party was a political force to
be recognised. With 12 seats in the European Parliament and a 16 per cent share
of the vote, the party was Britain's third-biggest in Europe.

At one point, inside Conservative Central Office there were fears that this
one-time rag-tag gang of breakaway anti-Europeans would split the Tory vote in
the UK and break the mould of British politics at Westminster. This, despite a
memorable claim in 2004 by the MEP Geoffrey Bloom that a woman's place was
behind the fridge, scrubbing.

But as hundreds of delegates gather for their annual conference in a rain-swept
Bournemouth this weekend the party finds itself riven with furious - and quite
extraordinary - infighting. Its leader, Nigel Farage, is facing an attempted
coup to unseat him by several factions of the party, including one with links to
the far-right British National Party (BNP) and another still loyal to his
predecessor.

The party's press officer, Annabelle Fuller, a close ally of Mr Farage, has
resigned after receiving phone threats. She told The Independent the calls came
from "sexist" party members in the middle of the night. In her letter of
resignation, Ms Fuller, 26, complained of "personal threats" and "verbal abuse".
She said she had been subjected to abusive telephone calls, including one at 3am
calling her a whore.

Back at Ukip's headquarters, at least four senior party figures - including one
who gave money to the US associate of the BNP - are said to be seeking Mr
Farage's removal. At the same time, another plot to remove Mr Farage is being
co-ordinated by the former Ukip member Andrew Edwards who was removed from the
party after it emerged he had links to the BNP.

In January, he sent an email to friends saying, "Happy new year and damnation to
the enemies of Britain and the British".

He confirmed yesterday that he wants Mr Farage removed, and named several other
figures who believe Mr Farage is not taking a hard enough line on issues
including immigration and who are moving against his leadership. Then there is
David Abbott, a member of Ukip's national executive committee (NEC), and former
candidate in the European elections. He once donated money to the American
Friends of the BNP (AFBNP).

Dr Abbott, whom Mr Farage has tried to remove from the NEC, said he was working
for Mr Farage's removal from the leadership, saying "UKIP needs effective
leadership".

Nick Griffin, the BNP leader, confirmed both Dr Abbott's donation - which he
said was a one-off and on "free speech" grounds - and Mr Edwards' ever-closer
involvement with the BNP. He said Mr Edwards regularly wrote for the BNP
website, confirmed he was involved with the BNP while in Ukip and said that he
"was with them and is now much more sympathetic to us".

He said Mr Edwards was "one of a number of people who joined Ukip in good faith
and then found that it wasn't - and Nigel Farage in particular wasn't - what
they had thought".

Asked yesterday about his links to the BNP, Mr Edwards said the answer depended
on one's definition of "links". He denied ever having been a member, but added:
"Have I had email contact with members of the BNP? Yes, I include some of them
in circulars I put out in relation to all things EU, and yes, I make use of the
BNP website for information re UK politics."

Pressed on whether he wrote for the website, he said he submitted articles on EU
matters that were posted on the site.

In recent days, as the conference has approached, another party member, John
Smith, has sent an email to fellow members in an attempt to rally a move against
Mr Farage. The email, sent from an address that contains the term
"Islamophobuk", says: "I will not renew my membership when renewal falls due,
and I will resign from the party. Unless? Unless Nigel Farage is removed from
his destructive stranglehold on Ukip. A stranglehold that has seen the party's
fortunes plummet so dramatically."

Yesterday afternoon in Bournemouth, the leader was said to have faced a "heated"
question-and-answer session as the two-day conference got under way. And last
night, a series of plotters were at a hotel in Bournemouth to discuss how to
overthrow their leader.

A private memo, seen by The Independent, sets out the meeting's agenda:
"Subjects for discussion can include ... the campaign strategy ... the
restructuring of the party, method and control for elections to the NEC, role of
the leader and leadership ... financial controls and internal party
communications." Outside, the air in Bournemouth was thick with rumours and
plotting.

So, where did it all go wrong?

Even Mr Farage's enemies accept he is a charismatic and successful communicator
who dominates programmes such as the BBC's Question Time when he appears,
allowing the party to punch above its weight. But Mr Farage's critics question
both his "centralised", "top-down" style, and the way he runs his party's
finances.

They say that although Mr Farage claims to have been at the vanguard of
transparency on expenses in Brussels, he has failed to adopt the most recent
reforms being made by British parties there.

Ms Fuller said the present problems began when Mr Farage - an unlikely
"moderniser" - took over the leadership from Roger Knapman, who remains an MEP
but who has poor relations with his successor. He has held discussions with
Tories about the possibility of running an alternative slate of Eurosceptic
candidates in the European Parliament elections next June.

Allies of Mr Knapman confirmed yesterday that he "regularly" meets prominent
former Conservatives to discuss the future of the withdrawalist cause. These
include Tim Congdon who has written to Mr Farage questioning his strategy.

Piers Merchant, the former Tory MP who is advising Mr Knapman, said the MEP
"very regularly meets a cross-section of former and present Tory MPs and senior
figures, including Mr Congdon, who publicly and privately hold similar views."

One friend of Mr Knapman said last night that there was a "severe problem" with
the leadership and that Mr Farage was in a "difficult" position. He predicted
that the leadership would come under pressure in the coming weeks.

Whatever the truth behind the infighting at the heart of the far-right and
anti-European strand of politics, the stakes are high. If Ukip implodes, the BNP
looks like the chief beneficiary, and Nick Griffin could be a step closer to
achieving his biggest goal yet: to claim a monopoly on anti-European as well as
anti-immigration feeling and one day emerge as Britain's fourth largest party.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            September 5, 2008 Friday
                              Correction Appended

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 681 words


The wind is changing fast and everybody senses it. Yesterday it emerged that 85%
of our "public affairs professionals" - lobbyists to you or me - told pollsters
working for Public Affairs News that Gordon doesn't stand a chance; 42% of those
polled said they were putting more resources than last year into wooing
politicians at the forthcoming Conservative party conference - just 6% said the
same of Labour. Charles Clarke on the attack we all expect, because old scores
will be settled. But what will the PM say about Newsweek magazine, which in
better days lauded New Labour as creators of Cool Britannia, but now pronounces
in the latest edition: "The End of Gordon Brown". He'll react in the usual
fashion. Storm ahead. Watch out!

Prospect magazine, by contrast, suggests help is close at hand because Wilf
Stevenson, Gordon's old mate - recently available after founding and leading the
Smith Institute - may bring his knowhow to Downing Street. He can't arrive too
quickly. They would have called Red Adair but he's dead.

A simple proposition: that the European parliament "notes with extreme concern
the advertising of sexual services, which reinforce stereotypes of women as
objects, in publications, such as local newspapers, which are readily visible
and available to children". Hard to take issue with that. Indeed, one British
newspaper group, Newsquest South London, has already moved to ban advertisements
for adult services from its 300 publications. But the attempt to gain
cross-party agreement for what might seem an uncontroversial premise was
somewhat hampered by the fact that many Tories and Lib Dems in the European
parliament moved against the EU's positioning when a vote was taken on
Wednesday. The Lib Dems - all apart from Elspeth Attwooll, an MEP for Scotland -
voted against the call for fewer sex ads, as did the wider Liberal group with
which they align themselves in Brussels. It is not the EU's job to regulate
advertising, a Lib Dem spokesman told us. "It's another example of the EU
overreaching." The Tories, similarly minded, even broke ranks with their wider
grouping in the EU, much of which was happy to denounce the mucky ads. Some
suggest the roots of the problem lie in the infrequency with which the Tories
and the Lib Dems attend meetings of the parliament's women's committee. Often
the only Brits who turn up are Labour's Mary Honeyball and Ukip's Godfrey Bloom.
Bloom, of course, complained of women who don't "clean behind the fridge
enough", but at least he makes the effort. We salute him. It's that bad.

"In 30 years of employing people I've never seen racism," wrote Kelvin in the
Sun yesterday, and while that may be true, one suspects he may have heard a few
ripe things. Like the time, long past, when one executive wondered how South
Africa would cope "when the darkies come down from the trees". Or the occasion,
when the same guy told colleagues of switching TV channels because he was not
interested "in a lot of fucking bollocks about an emaciated coon". The coon that
time was Ghandi. It was all documented in 1990's Stick It Up Your Punter, an
eye-popping account of the Sun in its wilder days - and the authors were under
the impression that the executive was Kelvin. Maybe they were wrong. We all make
mistakes.

But then let us reflect upon yesterday's ructions at Newcastle United, where
Kevin Keegan was once more engulfed by doubts and turmoil sufficient for him to
leave the club for a second time in a state of some distress. Let us remember
that this is the only state-sponsored Premier League team, as it continues to
enjoy the fruits of a £25m sponsorship package from the publicly owned shipwreck
Northern Rock, and will do so until 2010. And let us conclude that for all the
entertainment we derived from Keegan, not to mention his pint-swilling chairman
Mike Ashley and his talismanic midfielder Joey Barton - just released from jail
after serving time for assault and affray - the Treasury's first public-private
partnership soap opera does seem quite expensive. Corrie's dialogue is better
too.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 9, 2008 Tuesday



CORRECTION: *A Diary item referring to Mahatma Gandhi misspelled his name as
Ghandi (page 33, September 5).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           September 4, 2008 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

YOU WASTE OF SPACE

BYLINE: by LAURA NEIL

SECTION: NEWS; 6

LENGTH: 440 words


THE England football team finally won something yesterday - the title Biggest
Waste of Space Ever.

Our flop squad even beat junkie rocker Pete Doherty and Gordon Brown to the
unwelcome prize.

And it is their humiliating failure to qualify for Euro 2008 that won them top
spot.

Steve McClaren's team of multi-millionaires needed just a point from their last
group game against Croatia to secure their place the Euro finals.

Their 3-2 defeat led to the sacking of McClaren, 47, and saw a nation in
despair.

But football fans finally got their revenge yesterday by handing them the
unwanted title in a poll by storage products firm www. bigdug. co. uk. Second
spot went to jailbird Doherty, 29.

Third place in the poll of 3,000 Brits was taken by disaster-prone Prime
Minister Brown, 57.

A spokesman for the firm said: "The country was so disappointed when England
failed to qualify for the Euro 2008 finals.

"We aren't surprised by Gordon Brown's high entry, either.

"British citizens have lost trust in his Government. His constant dithering,
coupled with policy Uturns, have made his tenure at the top an uncomfortable
experience.

"We wanted to find out what people deemed a 'waste of space'.

As storage product specialists, we try to minimise the floor space wasted by UK
businesses.

"But there's not a lot we can do about the England team or Gordon Brown." Toilet
roll covers came fourth in the poll, followed by former Atomic Kitten Kerry
Katona, 27, and the Eurovision Song Contest.

Others to make the Top 20 include glamour girl Jodie Marsh, 29, Mayor of London
Boris Johnson, 44, Paris Hilton, 27, and Peaches Geldolf, 19.

All beat traffic wardens, who languish in 19th place.

And the winners are. . .

1The England football team 2 Pete Doherty 3 Gordon Brown 4 Toilet roll covers 5
Kerry Katona 6 Eurovision Song Contest 7 Jodie Marsh 8 Boris Johnson 9 Paris
Hilton 10 McDonald's salads 11 Heather Mills 12 Mini-roundabouts 13 Calum Best
14 Digital photo frames 15 Peaches Geldof 16 UKIP 17 The Cheeky Girls 18
Personal number plates 19 Traffic wardens 20 Steve McClaren 21 Padded coat
hangers 22 The Monster Raving Loony Party 23 Quilted toilet paper 24 Heathrow's
Terminal 5 25 Danielle Lloyd 26Cherie Blair 27 Big Brother 28 Fitness DVDs 29
Pot pourri 30 Fiona Phillips 31 Skimmed milk 32 Mini-disc players 33 Paul Danan
34 Lava lamps 35. Michelle Heaton 36 Highways agency motorway patrol 37 Dean
Gaffney 38 Don't Forget The Lyrics! show 39 The sport of curling 40 Paul Burrell
41 Mopeds 42 Shoe horns 43 Chantelle Houghton 44 Trouser presses 45 Christine
Hamilton 46 Facial saunas 47 Sadie Frost 48 Teasmaid gadgets 49 Keith Chegwin 50
Darren Day

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CAN'T BE BEAT: England's footballers are the biggest wasters
DOH! Yes, Pete, you're No 2
LICKED: Kerry Katona is rated fifth

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                          September 3, 2008 Wednesday
                                  2ND Edition

Family row over Earl's wedding day

SECTION: Pg. 37

LENGTH: 380 words


HEN his ex-wife remarried last month, there was a simple register office
ceremony and a lunch for 35 guests. But marriage second time around was a much
grander affair for the Earl of Bradford.

There were fireworks over a lake, a reception overflowing with Taittinger pink
champagne, dinner for 230 morning-suited guests and a show of flamenco dancers.

But although urbane Richard Bradford and his attractive obstetrician bride Penny
Law radiated happiness as they signed the register in the library of the peer's
fabulous former stately home, 17th-century Weston Park in Shropshire, all was
not well.

For I can reveal that just before Saturday's ceremony began, father-of-four
Bradford and his eldest son and heir Viscount Newport had a furious row.

Alexander Newport, 27, who runs the family's 28,000-acre estate, did not, I
gather, approve of the grandiose wedding arrangements.

And he bluntly refused to be his father's best man.

Guests were unaware of the discord as Bradford, 60, and his 46-year-old Countess
had their marriage blessed at St Andrew's church adjoining Weston Park.

But I am told Alexander thought the plans were 'inappropriate'. Says a guest:
'He felt embarrassed by the scale of it and at the last moment decided he could
not be best man. There was a blazing row.' Happily, calm returned and Alexander
was on hand when toasts were being paid in Weston's orangery. He also attended
the evening's lavish dinner, where guests included UKIP leader Nigel Farage and
panel game aficionado Gyles Brandreth.

W

Three weeks ago, Bradford's first wife Jo, 51, married Old Etonian banker Philip
Porter at Chelsea Register Office followed by a small luncheon at a nearby
restaurant.

At that event, Alexander made a jolly speech, as did his brother Henry. But
neither of them spoke at their father's bash.

Instead the bride's father, Tim Law, amused guests when he recalled that when he
first heard of Penny's engagement he thought his daughter had said she was going
to 'marry a girl -- not an earl'.

Says a friend: 'It was a wonderful wedding and Richard's daughter, Alicia, and
Penny's daughter, Madeleine, who go to the same school, were bridesmaids. But I
think some people did think that the celebrations were a little over-the-top
second time round. It must have cost him £65,000.'

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                          September 3, 2008 Wednesday
                                  IRE Edition

ISAAC BICKERSTAFFE

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 504 words


¦MIDNIGHT Cowboy star and former Vietnam War protester Jon Voight - now better
known as Angelina Jolie's dad - is at the Republican Convention in Minnesota
backing John McCain, expressing misgivings about Barack Obama and calling for 'a
strong America'. Some 'anarchists' took his photo and sought his autograph when
he strolled past their demo.

¦ONE Irishman at the Democratic Convention last week was filmmaker Stuart
Townsend, pictured, screening his new film Battle in Seattle for the convention
attendees. The leftist agitprop details infamous protests at a World Trade
Organisation meeting in Seattle in 1999. Word reaches this column that the piece
was well received by the Democratic audience, mostly comprising trade union
leaders. Mr Townsend might face a harder sell this week, however - he is taking
the film to Minneapolis to meet the Republicans.

¦CAROLE Coleman, former squeeze of RTÉ's Charlie Bird, is back in the U.S. for
the Presidential Election. One wonders what the Republicans make of the
standard-bearer for neutral Irish State broadcasting - when she was granted the
rare privilege of a brief interview with George Bush, she wrote of how she
'wanted to slap him'.

¦JOHN McCain's rich wife, Cindy, pictured, gave delegates a treat by turning up
at the convention in a magnificent gold ensemble. Well-preserved Cindy said with
disarming modesty: 'I'd pretty much counted us out. Every day is a surprise.'

¦MOST European heads of government have either gone to Georgia since the Russia
invasion or sent a deputy. Brian Cowen has done neither. But for ministers in
Tbilisi, who are embattled in more than merely the clichéd sense, Mr Cowen's
silence has not gone unnoticed. Says one minister, hoping for a more practical
response: 'It is tremendous to have the support of superpowers or NATO, but all
countries have their abilities. It is like the story from the Bible. A small
donation from the old lady equals the large one from the wealthy. We don't count
the amount. It's a matter of support.'

¦MUCH attention has surrounded the news that Opus Dei is to run the parish of
Church of Our Lady Queen of Peace in Merrion Road, not all of it evincing much
Christian charity towards members of The Work. But the parish has a history
itself. In 1984, 2,500 crowded into the Church for Mass celebrated by one Father
Joseph Maguire, the American priest more often known as the Miracle Man for his
powers of healing. Nor did Father Maguire disappoint. Reports at the time
included a 46-year-old cancer sufferer who announced after meeting the cleric
that she regained her lost ability to walk.

¦MR Bickerstaffe spoke with an old friend in Brussels yesterday, one of the UKIP
contingent in the European parliament. UKIP are used to getting a bad press,
mostly unfairly, but are particularly peeved with Fine Gael's Avril Doyle,who
has rather unsportingly started calling the group 'racist'. As my lunch
companion of old says, 'we may be middle-aged, male, white, lazy, and drunkards
- but we are not racists.' Be warned

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
