
                               1 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 28, 2008 Tuesday

We can never be part of a federal Europe;
A two-speed European Union is the only arrangement that will work, says Norman
Tebbit

BYLINE: Norman Tebbit

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 901  words


The speech of Valéry Giscard d'Estaing at The Global Vision and Daily Telegraph
conference last month was a startling recognition by the French establishment
that, whether or not Britain would be "better off out'', the advance of the ever
closer union of the Euro Republic would be easier without Britain slowing the
pace.

Like de Gaulle half a century ago, Giscard has recognised that Britain would no
more fit into the 21st-century European state than it would have fitted into the
European empires of the 16th, 19th or 20th centuries. His proposal that Britain
(and possibly some others) might be left marking time where we are today while
the others advance at the double, would indeed open the way to the ever closer
union of most members - but would hardly be a lasting political structure.

When, 15 years ago, I suggested to him that it was time to get the British dog
out of the federalist manger, he seemed fearful that would leave France "alone
with the Germans''. Perhaps France now feels that in the expanded EU it would be
less lonely without us.

More recently, the global financial crisis has emphasised that the EU cannot
continue as it is. The retreat of countries within the eurozone into unilateral
protectionism to save their own banks has illuminated the fatal weakness of the
euro. It is a currency with 15 finance ministers - and no currency can survive
in the long term without not only a single central bank, but a single Treasury,
a single finance minister and a single tax system.

The collapse of the euro itself is neither likely in the near future nor
necessarily in British interests. It is more likely that nationalism of the kind
we have recently seen by Germany and Iceland, or economic pressures on countries
such as Italy, will force some countries to withdraw.

In any case, it is difficult to see that anything could provide the glue to bind
together nations as different as Finland and Portugal, Ireland and Romania or
Spain and Belgium. Giscard may well find the EU more likely to unravel into a
new West European Republic of six or 10 states willing to sacrifice their
identities to gain the undoubted advantages that the United Kingdom has enjoyed
in its own union of England, Scotland, Ulster and Wales, and 15 or 20 still
sovereign states in a new treaty relationship.

Perhaps when Margaret Thatcher set out, in her Bruges speech 20 years ago, her
vision of a European Economic Community of "willing and active co-operation
between independent sovereign states'', she was a quarter of a century ahead of
her time.

It was a vision so different from that of the political establishment in
Brussels that the euro-fanatics within the Conservative Party concluded she
would have to go. Her departure opened the way to the successive treaties of
Maastricht, Antwerp, Nice and Lisbon hustling the EEC into the EC and now the
EU; but for the obstinate refusal of the Irish to be railroaded into the
constitution, we would by now be faced with a European Republic.

Since Thatcher, most British politicians have simply pretended that there was no
plan for a European state. Jacques Delors turned to the TUC with his vision of a
corporate state in which the European unions would be at the top table with the
employers and politicians, just like the old days of Wilson's government, and
the TUC turned Labour more European than the Liberals. British euro-sceptics
were marginalised and mocked. In the Labour Party, Neil Kinnock, once the
firebrand scourge of Brussels, took the Commission's shilling and became another
compliant Commissioner.

The task for the Tory leadership, the euro-sceptics, the "Better Off Out''
supporters and UKIP is to crystalise the vision of Mrs Thatcher's Bruges speech
into the architecture of a new European treaty, one that would constitute a
framework within which sovereign states would co-operate with a European
Republic formed of those nations willing to enter a complete political union of
their own - what we might call their 1707 moment. And if those states are wise,
they would see that the 1707 Act of Union brought mutual benefit for three
centuries, although devolution has edged the UK close to the cliff edge of
break-up within a decade.

In 1988, Mrs Thatcher's "guiding principles for the future'' of Europe were
simple.

First, that "willing and active

co-operation between independent sovereign states is the best way to a
successful community''. Secondly, that "community policies must tackle present
problems in a practical way''. Thirdly, she saw a place for "policies that
encourage enterprise'' and, lastly, that the "most fundamental issue'' was the
European countries' role in defence.

Those principles still hold good. What has changed is the recognition by Giscard
that total union of all member states is unattainable, and that the New Europe
must accommodate both the United European States of those willing to unite and
the sovereign national states wishing to remain independent.

The financial crisis has exposed that the present system of monetary union
without political union is unsustainable, just as Giscard has exposed the
present European architecture - even with the constitution in place - as
unsustainable, too.

It is time for the euro-sceptics of all kinds to design the architecture of a
European home in which there is a place for states seeking ever closer union as
well as for those upholding national sovereignty.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            October 28, 2008 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BROWN BINS BRITISH DAY;
Heritage hol is shelved

BYLINE: by STEVE HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 13

LENGTH: 311 words


PLANS for a "British Day" have been scrapped by killjoy Government ministers.

Gordon Brown had promised the holiday for the summer to celebrate our heritage
and give hard-working Brits an extra day off.

Downing Street even issued a list of ways to celebrate the occasion, including
live music, street parties and drinking.

Brown's ministers confirmed last night that the idea has been shelved. But
across the nation, many said British Day was one of the few of Gordon Brown's
ideas they agreed with.

Rob Holdsworth, spokesman for the TUC, said: "We certainly would have backed a
national holiday for Britain.

"It would have been just the boost people need during these difficult times.

"People have said they want this national holiday - and the Government should
listen." A spokesman for the UK Independence Party added:

"Almost every other country has its own national day.

"We could do with a feelgood factor - we're disappointed."

Brown came up with the idea in 2006 when he was still Chancellor.

He said Britain lacked a day celebrating "who we are and what we stand for" and
pointed to the US's Independence Day and France's Bastille Day as examples of
holidays celebrating a nation's spirit. But Constitution Minister Michael Wills
told Tory MP Andrew Rosindell:

"There are no plans to introduce a national day at the present time."

Critics of British Day are glad the idea has been binned, though.

Many said it was just a ploy to divert English voters' attention from that fact
that Brown is Scottish.

Robin Tilbrook of the English Democrats said:

"We're pleased this is now off the agenda.

"It was just a transparent attempt by Brown to make himself more British.

"In England we should be celebrating St George's Day."

Shadow justice secretary Nick Herbert stormed: "One token initiative after
another in Prime Minister Brown's Britishness agenda has just sunk without
trace."

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'TOKEN GESTURE': PM Brown
FLAGGED UP: We Brits could have been celebrating like the Yanks do on
Independence Day

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                            October 26, 2008 Sunday
                                  1ST Edition

Labour hasn't legalised British f lags on number plates ... seven years after
saying it would

BYLINE: Martin Delgado

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 694 words


THOUSANDS of motorists have been unwittingly breaking the law after the
Government backtracked on a promise to legalise the display of Union Flags on
number plates.

Ministers said they would take action to exempt British drivers from EUinspired
legislation which also outlawed the Cross of St George, the Scottish Saltire and
the Welsh Dragon.

In a statement in December 2001 following a Mail on Sunday campaign, the then
Transport Minister John Spellar, now a Government Whip, assured motorists that
they could continue displaying national symbols on their number plates.

'This is what the people of England, Scotland and Wales have asked for and
strengthens their feeling of national identity,' he declared.

And DVLA officials indicated legislation would be brought forward 'within a
month' and said the police would take a 'relaxed attitude' to alleged offenders
in the meantime.

But the change was never made - and it is only now, following a series of
parliamentary questions from MPs and renewed pressure from this newspaper, that
the true situation has been revealed.

The fiasco means that for the past seven years motorists with national flags on
their plates have unknowingly been risking prosecution, a fine of £1,000 and an
MoT failure for their vehicle.

Under the regulations in their original form, the only insignia allowed was the
12-star circle of the European Union..

Motorists had to choose either a plain plate without a symbol, or one with the
EU emblem and the letters GB on the left-hand side.

Ministers claimed the move was justified, as English, Welsh and Scottish symbols
would confuse police forces in other EU countries.

Despite opposition from Liberal Democrat and nationalist MPs, the rules were
approved by Parliament in April 2001. That triggered a mass protest by Mail on
Sunday readers, backed by politicians and motoring organisations.

Transport chiefs were bombarded with letters of protest and we gave away free
stickers with national flags with every copy of The Mail on Sunday for drivers
to display on their vehicles.

A poll of 1,034 adults found that 69 per cent preferred a GB identifier on their
plates compared with just 16 per cent wanting the EU flag.

We highlighted the case of lifeguard Neil Prendergast, 20, who was stopped by
Greater Manchester Police and given a £30 fixed penalty for having a Cross of St
George sticker on the front number plate of his Opel Corsa.

But dozens more prosecutions are believed to have gone unreported.

David Jones, Conservative MP for Clwyd West, said: 'My wife Sara drives around
in a car with a red dragon on the number plate, thinking she was entirely
justified in doing so. Now she finds she is technically a criminal. This should
have been regularised years ago.

'Motorists across the country will be astonished they are apparently breaking
the law. The Government should ensure that the necessary statutory instrument is
laid before Parliament as soon as possible.' Mr Jones added: 'There is an
overwhelming demand throughout the country for national symbols to be allowed on
number plates. It's high time that Ministers honoured the promise that they made
all those years ago.' Bob Spink, the UK Independence Party's only MP, is
demanding to know how many drivers have been penalised for an offence they did
not know they were committing.

He said: 'This affair illustrates the growing power of the European Union over
our lives. It is also a betrayal of motorists who didn't know they were breaking
the law. It shows yet again that what governments say and what they do are often
miles apart.' Andrew Howard, head of road safety at the AA, said: 'Having said
they would change the law, Ministers should have done that. Allowing the police
to adopt a "blind eye" approach to the enforcement of motoring law is not
sensible.' Last week, in response to questions from MPs, Transport Minister Jim
Fitzpatrick said: 'The regulations have not yet been amended and the matter is
currently under review.' But last night a Department for Transport spokesman
said: 'It has taken much longer than was anticipated but we are now looking to
bringing forward legislation as soon as possible.' Comment: Page 27

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 1.SEEING RED: MP's wife Sara Jones 2.FINED: Neil Prendergast and his
flag

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                            October 26, 2008 Sunday
                                   HI Edition

Labour hasn't legalised the Saltire on number plates ... seven years after
saying it would

BYLINE: Martin Delgado

SECTION: Pg. 25

LENGTH: 714 words


THOUSANDS of motorists have been unwittingly breaking the law after the
Government backtracked on a promise to legalise the display of national flags on
number plates.

Ministers said they would take action to exempt British drivers from EU-inspired
legislation which outlawed the Scottish Saltire, the Cross of St George and the
Welsh Dragon as well as the Union Flag.

In a statement in December 2001 following a Mail on Sunday campaign, the then
Transport Minister John Spellar, now a Government Whip, assured motorists that
they could continue displaying national symbols on their number plates.

'This is what the people of England, Scotland and Wales have asked for and
strengthens their feeling of national identity,' he declared.

And DVLA officials indicated legislation would be brought forward 'within a
month' and said the police would take a 'relaxed attitude' to alleged offenders
in the meantime.

But the change was never made - and it is only now, following a series of
parliamentary questions from MPs and renewed pressure from this newspaper, that
the true situation has been revealed.

The fiasco means that for the past seven years, motorists with national flags on
their plates have unknowingly been risking prosecution, a fine of £1,000 and an
MoT failure for their vehicle.

Under the regulations in their original form, the only insignia allowed was the
12-star circle of the European Union.

Motorists had to choose either a plain plate without a symbol or one with the EU
emblem and the letters GB on the left-hand side.

Ministers claimed the move was justified, as English, Welsh and Scottish symbols
would confuse police forces in other EU countries.

Despite opposition from Liberal Democrat and nationalist MPs, the rules were
approved by Parliament in April 2001. That triggered a mass protest by Mail on
Sunday readers, backed by politicians and motoring organisations.

Transport chiefs were bombarded with letters of protest and a poll of 1,034
adults found that 69 per cent preferred a GB identifier on their plates compared
to just 16 per cent wanting the EU flag.

We highlighted the case of lifeguard Neil Prendergast, 20, who was stopped by
Greater Manchester Police and given a £30 fixed penalty for having a cross of St
George sticker on the front number plate of his Opel Corsa.

But dozens more prosecutions are believed to have gone unreported.

Conservative MP David Jones said: 'My wife drives around in a car with a red
dragon on the number plate, thinking she was entirely justified in doing so. Now
she finds she is technically a criminal. This should have been regularised years
ago.

'Motorists across the country will be astonished they are apparently breaking
the law. The Government should ensure that the necessary statutory instrument is
laid before Parliament as soon as possible.' Mr Jones added: 'There is an
overwhelming demand throughout the country for national symbols to be allowed on
number plates. It's time Ministers honoured the promise they made all those
years ago.' Joe Kane, a taxi driver in Glasgow, said: 'This is a piece of
nonsense. I am very proud to have the Scottish flag on my licence plate.

'I have had the flag on my taxi for a few years - it's good to represent
Scotland. It shows the tourists that I pick up that I'm a proud Scot.' Bob
Spink, the UK Independence Party's only MP, is demanding to know how many
drivers have been penalised for an offence they did not know they were
committing.

He said: 'This affair illustrates the growing power of the European Union over
our lives. It is also a betrayal of motorists who didn't know they were breaking
the law. It shows yet again that what governments say and what they do are often
miles apart.' Andrew Howard, head of road safety at the AA, said: 'Having said
they would change the law, Ministers should have done that. Allowing the police
to adopt a "blind eye" approach to the enforcement of motoring law is not
sensible.' Last week, in response to questions from MPs, Transport Minister Jim
Fitzpatrick said: 'The regulations have not yet been amended and the matter is
currently under review.' But last night a Department for Transport spokesman
said: 'It has taken much longer than was anticipated, but we are now looking to
bringing forward legislation as soon as possible.'

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 1.PROUD SCOT: Glasgow taxi driver Joe Kane 2.BROKEN PLEDGE: John
Spellar

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 26, 2008 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU pay 'a conflict of interest'

SECTION: NEWS TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 4

LENGTH: 86  words


LORD Mandelson may face an investigation over claims that payments he gets from
the EU compromise his position as Business Secretary.

The UK Independence Party is considering making a formal complaint over pension
and severance payments to the former EU Commissioner.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said the payments breached the ministerial code, which
says ministers must avoid all perceived conflicts of interest.

"Given that most of our business laws come from Brussels I do not see how Mr
Mandelson can avoid such concerns."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONCERNS: Lord Mandelson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 25, 2008 Saturday

French accuse English;
of Agincourt war crimes

BYLINE: Peter Allen and Nabila Ramdani in Agincourt

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 604  words


THE French are using the anniversary of the Battle of Agincourt to accuse
England's soldiers of acting like "war criminals''.

Exactly 593 years after King Henry V's victory, a revisionist conference will be
held at the site of the battle today.

Academics will suggest that the extent of the feat of arms was greatly
exaggerated, with claims that the English were heavily outnumbered a lie.

More controversially, they will say that the foreign invaders used numerous
underhand tactics against an honourable enemy.

These included burning prisoners to death and setting 40 royal bodyguards on to
a single Gallic nobleman who had surrendered.

"There's been a distortion of the facts and this conference will attempt to set
the record straight,'' said Christophe Gilliot, who is director of the Medieval
History Museum in Agincourt.

"We have historians arriving from all over France, and all will produce hard
facts concerning the battle, rather than rumours and speculation,'' he said. "At
the very least the English forces acted dishonourably. The Middle Ages were a
very violent time, but some might accuse the English of acting like what might
now be called war criminals.''

It was on Friday Oct 25, 1415 - St Crispin's Day - that Henry engaged the French
at Agincourt, a small village not far from Calais.

The English army, made up mainly of archers, overcame a more numerous force,
which including the cream of French chivalry, in the most famous battle of the
Hundred Years War.

Immortalised by William Shakespeare in his play Henry V, Agincourt has become a
byword for English heroism in the face of apparently insurmountable odds.

In fact, detailed bureaucratic records of Charles VI's army show that it was
made up of 9,000 travelling soldiers, with perhaps another 3,000 locals from the
Picardy region.  Henry had crossed the Channel with 12,000 men, although some
3,000 were lost during the preceding siege of Harfleur, and through dysentery.

English chroniclers have claimed that there were as many as 150,000 French and
just 6,000 English.

Mr Gilliot said notably horrific acts perpetrated by the English included
placing prisoners in a barn and setting it on fire, with the permission of
Henry.

When the Duke of Alençon, who commanded the second division of the French army,
had failed to put an axe through Henry, he tried to surrender but was killed by
the king's 40-strong bodyguard.

Mr Gilliot said: "There were numerous heroic acts by the French on the field of
battle, but they were met with barbarism by the English.''

Henry ordered the slaughter of thousands of French prisoners, with only the most
aristocratic being spared.

While no English academics have been invited to the conference, the revisionist
theories have found support on the other side of the Channel.

Prof Anne Curry, a military historian from Southampton University, said that
many accounts of the battle had been exaggerated to give the impression of
"plucky little England'' against the evil French.

Prof Curry, the author of Agincourt: A New History, she added: "For the French,
Agincourt was such a disaster that someone had to be blamed. For the English, it
afforded an opportunity to eulogise Henry and his army.''

Bernard Cornwell, who has written a best-selling fictionalised account of the
battle, said: "Something about Agincourt struck the imagination of Europe. If it
was not the disparity of the numbers I don't know what it was.''

Gawain Towler, the UK Independence Party spokesman, said: "The Agincourt
conference is a desperate attempt to rewrite history. You can't apply
21st-century morals to a battle which took place hundreds of years ago.''

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 24, 2008 Friday

Drivers break law by showing Union flag

BYLINE: David Millward and Christopher Hope

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 280  words


MOTORISTS are unwittingly breaking the law by displaying the Union flag on their
number plates, it has emerged.

The Cross of St George, the Scottish saltire and Welsh dragon are also banned.

Drivers who display national flags face a  pounds 60 fine and could find that
they fail an MoT test because of an illegal number plate.

It is thought that thousands of motorists have chosen number plates with the
flag of their country of origin, but exact numbers are not known.

Jim Fitzpatrick, a transport minister, told MPs of the restrictions yesterday
when replying to a parliamentary question from Bob Spink, the UK Independence
Party's only MP.

Mr Fitzpatrick said regulations that came into force seven years ago allowed the
display of only the European Union symbol of 12 yellow stars on a blue
background.

Mr Spink, the MP for Castle Point, raised the issue after being contacted by
motorists who had been fined for displaying national flags.

Many people were unaware of the regulations. He said: "No one believed it. This
is outrageous. Europe is gathering around itself the trappings of a country
because only countries can have a flag. Europe is becoming the country and
Britain is just a region. This is just not acceptable.''

The ban on national symbols became part of British law in June 2001, when it was
forced through despite opposition by Tory, Liberal Democrat and nationalist MPs.

The regulations also banned the display of "CYM'' for Cymru or "SCO'' for
Scotland on number plates. However, they can be carried as stickers elsewhere on
the vehicle.

These regulations were justified by ministers as being necessary to permit the
ease of circulation of vehicles throughout the EU.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            October 24, 2008 Friday
                                Scottish Edition

Saltire snub

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 70 words


HAVING a Saltire on your car number plate is illegal, ministers have admitted.

Drivers face a GBP 60 fine and even arrest if they slap a Union Jack, the Welsh
drag - on or the Scots flag on cars.

Transport minister Jim Fitzpatrick confessed road laws would have to be changed
if drivers want to put anything other than the EU flag on their motor.

Bob Spink, of the UK Independence Party, slammed the law as being un-British.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 24, 2008 Friday

Reply Letters and emails: Suits you, John

BYLINE: Nigel Farage

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 48 words


*Philip Bushill-Matthews (letters, October 23) tells us the Conservatives in the
European parliament warned of the troubles to come with the European arrest
warrant. Why didn't they vote against it then, as my Ukip colleague

Jeffrey Titford and I did?

Nigel Farage

Leader, UK Independence party

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                October 22, 2008

Byelection: Sarah Brown campaigns for Labour in Glenrothes

LENGTH: 366 words


Gordon Brown's wife will take another step into the political limelight today
when she joins Labour's byelection campaign in Glenrothes.

Almost a month after her successful appearance centre-stage at the Labour party
conference, Sarah Brown will lend her support to the battle to retain the once
safe Labour seat in Fife, Scotland.

Mrs Brown will knock on doors and talk to voters in a bid to drum up support for
Lindsay Roy, a local headteacher and Labour's candidate in the November 6 poll.

Despite its 10,664 majority, the party is facing a massive struggle to fend off
an SNP challenge in the seat, which neighbours the prime minister's but has been
left vacant by the death of Labour's John MacDougall.

Labour's loss of the Glasgow East byelection to the SNP this summer makes this a
tough contest and bookmaker Ladbrokes is quoting the SNP as 1-3 favourites in
Glenrothes.

Mrs Brown said ahead of her visit: "It's great for me to go round the streets
with Lindsay today as he listens to the issues people are raising.

"He was a great headteacher for Gordon's old school, and he's got a huge love
for Fife and its people. We're at home for half-term, and I thought it would be
nice to spend some time helping out the campaign this week."She went on:
"Everyone who's met Lindsay knows he's a hard-working, honest and caring man,
and I'm enjoying talking to people who are meeting him today about why I think
he would do a great job for the people of Fife."

Her husband did not campaign in Glasgow East, citing the convention that prime
ministers do not take part in byelections.

Labour initially adopted the same line ahead of the Glenrothes contest, but the
prime minister confirmed last week in a letter to Labour MPs and peers that he
intends to campaign in the constituency, which is next door to his own seat of
Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath.

The SNP is fielding Fife council leader Peter Grant. The Liberal Democrats, who
came third in 2005, are fielding Harry Wills, while the Tories' candidate is
Maurice Golden.

The Scottish Socialist party, rival leftwing party Solidarity, the Scottish
Senior Citizens' Unity party and Ukip are also contesting the byelection, for
which nominations closed yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               11 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           October 22, 2008 Wednesday

Nicola's eye is on the ball

BYLINE: Robert McAulay

LENGTH: 145 words


(Photograph) - NICOLA Sturgeon sets the by-election balls rolling on a visit to
Glenrothes with SNP candidate Peter Grant yesterday.

The deputy Nats leader and Mr Grant visited a kids' centre in the Fife
constituency which Labour will face a fight to hold.

The pair were promoting a £ 10million government handout to provide free central
heating for young families. Meanwhile it emerged eight candidates will stand in
the hot political contest on November 6.

Ladbrokes quote the SNP as 1-3 favourites with Labour 9-4. The other candidates
are: Morag Balfour (Socialist); Maurice Golden (Conservative and Unionist);
Louise McLeary (Solidarity); Jim Parker (Senior Citizens'); Lindsay Roy
(Labour), right; Kris Seunarine (Ukip); Harry Wills (Liberal Democrats).

The by-election follows the death of Labour MP John MacDougall who held the seat
with a majority of 10,664 in 2005.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 20, 2008 Monday 7:06 PM GMT

Brown's bureaucrat Baroness breezes it

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 315 words


It's time to pass the sick bag here in Strasbourg.

MEPs on the European Parliament's International Trade Committee have just fawned
over Baroness Catherine Ashton during what was supposed to be her rigorous
inaugural hearing as European Commissioner.

It was billed by various Conservatives and Socialists as a tough gig but quickly
transpired to be the softest touch any of Gordon Brown's unelected and appointed
politicians could dream of.

After almost two hours into the hearing, only one difficult question had been
asked. It came from Nigel Farage, Ukip leader and he blew it with a sarcastic
reference to her role as Leader of the House of Lords in getting the Lisbon
Treaty past the British people.

He got applause - but for the Baroness.

MEPs, possibly the only people who really, truly love the Lisbon Treaty, gave
her a rousing round of applause for her part in denying Britons a referendum by
getting the EU Constitution Mk II through an unelected chamber.

"I spent 76 hours of my life getting the Lisbon Treaty though the House of
Lords. I would very much like to see it come into force," she told her
appreciative audience.

The Baroness, whose long political career in the Labour government has never
needed to stand the test of an election, easily won over the MEPs with repeated
references to them as "fellow parliamentarians".

"I hope that people will soon be calling me Cathy," she simpered.

With an illustrious career that has seen her travel from one quango to another
(the Lords is the biggest in the land), the bureaucrat Baroness is clearly at
home in the EU and with its tame assembly.

Well placed sources tell me that she is going to be here for some time. Baroness
Ashton has been promised that she will serve in the next European Commission,
from 2009 to 2014.

Her brief? Many seem to think it will be will be a beefed up and powerful
environment and climate change portfolio.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 19, 2008 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU plot to force us to dump pound for euro

BYLINE: By Jason Groves POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 488  words


EUROPEAN leaders are plotting to "bounce" Britain into the euro in the wake of
the economic crisis.

The chairman of the euro group of finance ministers said Gordon Brown had to
"beg to be let into the room" where crisis talks took place place last week.

Luxembourg finance minister Jean-Claude Juncker said the group warned the Prime
Minister he could be excluded from future talks on the European recovery as long
as Britain remained outside the single currency.

Asked whether he thought Britain would now join the 15 countries who have
adopted the euro, Mr Juncker said: "For the government leader of a big country
it cannot be pleasant to invite himself into a meeting and then to have to leave
the meeting when those who are sharing their currency make the decisions.

"I am sure that when the storm is over, the British will reflect on whether they
shouldn't have the same rights in all bodies in future." Mr Juncker's comments
are the latest sign that EU leaders hope to use the credit crunch to hasten
European integration.

Some in Brussels are already referring to the situation as the "crunch of
convenience".

The argument that swift, unified decision-making is needed to tackle the crisis
is being used to put intense pressure on Ireland to hold a second referendum on
the EU Constitution.

However, the suggestion that Britain should join the euro prompted an angry
reaction last night. Shadow Europe Minister Mark Francois said scrapping the
pound would be a disaster.

He added: "Anyone who thinks the financial crisis means Britain's about to join
the euro is living in cloud cuckoo land.

"We'd be potentially far worse off if we didn't have our own currency and the
power to set interest rates that are right for Britain." Nigel Farage, leader of
the UK Independence Party, said: "There is no question that Brussels sees the
current crisis as an opportunity.

"They want to bounce us into the euro and create an EU treasury department.

"The one thing this crisis has shown is the need for flexible, independent
institutions. Mr Juncker can take a running jump." The Government remains
committed to holding a referendum before any move to join the euro, although
critics point out that Labour broke a similar pledge to hold a referendum on
signing the EU Constitution.

In a statement issued by Downing Street last night Mr Brown said: "We continue
to review it, but we have no plans to join the euro." The euro has strengthened
against the pound in the past year, but experts believe the single currency will
be severely tested by the credit crunch.

Lorraine Mullally, director of the think-tank Open Europe, said it was
"laughable" to suggest Britain should give up its currency for a seat at the
negotiating table.

She added: "Pro-euro campaigners used to say that if we stayed out we would lose
influence in Europe.

"Gordon Brown's leadership on the financial crisis proves that we wield
significant power by staying out of the euro."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            October 17, 2008 Friday
                                  1ST Edition

A pompous politician pulled along by his dawg. Marvellous;
YESTERDAY IN PARLIAMENT

BYLINE: Quentin Letts

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 655 words


ONE of the jollier occasions in the Westminster timetable was held yesterday:
the parliamentary dog show. For once there need be no BBC inquests if your
sketchwriter refers to barking bitches and sleek-coated woofers sniffing
bottoms.

No, Missus, I am not referring to Lord Mandelson of Foy in the County of
Herefordshire and Hartlepool in the County of Durham! This autumn show takes
place near the House of Lords on a small patch of green where Japanese tourists
can usually be found having their photographs taken.

There is something very British about the show. The tourists are ushered to one
side and some of our parliamentarians turn up with their household pets.

To see a politician, someone normally the embodiment of pomposity and crossness,
suddenly being pulled along a lawn by his over-eager dawg is a marvellously
restorative experience.

Politics was not entirely absent this year. There was dark talk of a row behind
the scenes. The Dog Trust, which had sponsored the show for the past few years,
was absent from yesterday's occasion.

Happily the good old Kennel Club stepped in to provide biscuits (for both humans
and dogs), rosettes and squeaky toys. For the journalists. Unusually we had no

Labour dogs. It had been hoped that a member of the Whips' Office would turn up
but the dog in question had apparently been taken ill. Nor did Lord Mandelson
turn up with his pooch.

Buster the bull terrier, who owns Andrew Rosindell (Con, Romford), was also an
absentee from the start of proceedings. 'Buster is stuck in traffic,' we were
told. This was a pity because Buster is regarded as a great advertisement for
the county of Essex and is understood to hold firm views on the Monarchy, the
European Union and the erection of flags on public buildings.

Another Buster was there, though.

This was Buster the Labrador who is part of the household of Andrew Murrison
(Con, Westbury). Mr Murrison explained that although he does not take Buster
canvassing he is still an asset on the doorsteps.

'Constituents' dogs can normally smell Buster on my clothes and this makes them
very friendly to me,' said Mr Murrison. Result: elector thinks that MP is a
natural with dogs and therefore votes for him.

Nick Harvey (Lib Dem, North Devon) was attending the show with his beautiful
golden retriever, name of Crumpet. Crumpet? That's not a very politically
correct name for a Lib Dem.

Mr Harvey begged me to accept that Crumpet had been named by his children.
Nonetheless, there is room for trouble here. What happens if Mr Harvey is
walking in his constituency and the dog slips off its lead. Does the MP hold out
a Bonio and shout 'Crumpet! Come and get it, girl!' Or does he hesitate in case
his words are misunderstood by the good ladies of North Devon? John Whittingdale
(Con, Maldon) had entered his little cocker spaniel Oscar in the competition. Mr
Whittingdale chairs the Commons Culture Select Committee and he said that Oscar
was a good deal more obedient than some of the committee's members.

The Whittingdales have long been dog lovers. The MP's other dog is called Humbug
and when Lady Thatcher recently stayed chez Whittingdale she apparently spoiled
Humbug like mad, feeding the hound under the table. B OB Spink (UKIP, Castle
Point) was parading two greyhounds, Jesie and Fuzzy Bear, and David Amess (Con,
Southend West) was being tugged here and there by an American bulldog called
Betsey. 'She barks with an American accent,' claimed Mr Amess.

Roger Gale (Con, North Thanet) was found behind the furry bulk of a gorgeous
Newfoundland dog, Lollie.

Newfoundlands are often used for sea rescues. Mr Gale explained that this can be
a problem when he is on holiday and takes a swim in a river.

'The dog jumps in and tries to rescue me. I actually have two Newfoundlands and
when they're both in the river with me they're such strong swimmers I could
practically waterski.' Will we ever be able to look at Mr Gale in the same
light?

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 17, 2008 Friday

Bob Spink, MP

BYLINE:  Adam Sherwin

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg.13

LENGTH: 90 words


They don't enjoy many Westminster victories so we must pay due respect to the UK
Independence Party for triumphing in Parliament's annual dog of the year
competition. Bob Spink, MP, took the garlands with Fozzy Bear, 6, and Jessie, 5,
a pair of retired greyhounds, who can still bolt at 45mph. David Amess, the
Conservative MP, breached protocol by bringing a placard to support Betsy, his
American bulldog. The placard implied a clear "Betsy Palin" link. The
consequences of confusing a bulldog with a pitbull could be extremely painful.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 14, 2008 Tuesday

Diary: Hugh Muir

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 653 words


Troubling times for the far right just now, we fear, with Austrian rabble-rouser
Jorg Haider gone (no tears, just send flowers), another BNP election debacle
(just 27 votes from 2,900 cast in a north London byelection) and the continuing
row over the hapless Frederick Toben, the alleged Holocaust denier fighting
extradition to Germany after arrest at Heathrow. He faces a full hearing on
Friday. As you might expect, our thoughts are with him. Toben's plight has
attracted support from a disparate bunch, including one man who gave him a Nazi
salute from the public gallery of the magistrates court and David Irving, who
was himself once judged to be a Holocaust denier. Then there is Chris Huhne, the
Liberal Democrat home affairs and justice spokesman, who has no truck with the
man himself but who did question throughout the media the EU arrest procedure
that made Toben's detention possible. Would that he had taken the same position,
say critics - and especially Ukip - in 2002, while a member of the European
parliament and when, as EU records show, he voted to endorse the controversial
procedure on at least one occasion, as did Nick Clegg, Labour and the Tories.
But we cannot change the past. We must go forward.

That's how the Prince of Wales sees things. When the decision was taken to leave
the lights on at Buckingham Palace, Greenpeace was first to tell the Queen
what's what. "These lights are going to blaze away until the end of her reign,"
the environmentalists said testily. But their pointed attacks - we recall
another accusing her of ravaging the rain forests - haven't stopped Prince
Charles from making Benet Northcote, currently Greenpeace's chief policy
adviser, his new deputy private secretary. Perhaps that's why he did it.

Hello and welcome to the new Gordon; the one who bestrides the international
stage like a colossus buying up the banks, reassuring the panicky. Suddenly,
much to the annoyance of the Tories, the Mail and the Sun, he is the leader's
leader, guiding the French, the Germans and poor befuddled W through the
wreckage of the world economy. Who'd have thought he'd be hailed a hero.
Probably not him. "Brown the Magician" was the headline this weekend in Le JDD,
France's Sunday newspaper. Better that than Charlie Cairoli.

He is a man with a sense of purpose, and now he is getting on top of things he
can wind down occasionally, relax a bit. Last Wednesday, after his £500bn
bail-out, he went to the Foreign Office to crack jokes at a jovial reception,
and on Friday, as it emerged that £250bn had been wiped off the value of the
UK's 100 leading companies, he went to the theatre. Now or Later at the Royal
Court in London's West End, the acclaimed production weaved around a tense
election night in the United States, provided his evening's entertainment. Of
course, it's now or never for him.

But if he thinks his fortunes are generally on the up, who can blame him. Last
week, the good folk of Whitby - which has of late been Tory country - paid more
at a charity event for his signed bottle of House of Commons wine than for a
bottle of whisky donated by David Cameron. This is not to predict the next
election or to dispute the polls, but in its own small way it could mean
something. Whitby speaks, the nation listens.

And wasn't it another brilliant week for the BBC's man of the moment, the
business editor Robert Peston? All-seeing, all-knowing, all day, all night; the
signs are that he is enjoying the limelight. Bravo. Reading his 810-word My Week
article for the Sunday Times at the weekend, our analysts noted that he used the
word "I" on 53 occasions, "me" five times, "my" nine times, with "Robert" and
"Peston" in the third person, both on one occasion. This is known in the trade
as "I" strain. Irritating, but not fatal. He'll be OK.

Finally this, from the Daily Mail. "Surely parliament will be diminished by the
retirement of Ann Widdecombe." Blimey.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 9, 2008 Thursday

Comment and debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 675 words


The bitterest irony is that, as the global financial system teeters on the
brink, trade union barons met at the board of Tribune (sales 4,000) on Tuesday
to prepare for an orderly rundown of the magazine that has been a thorn in
capitalism's side for over 70 years. Printers and other debts will be paid,
leaving Chris McLaughlin, the editor, to hunt for a new sponsor now that the big
five unions feel they have spent enough. What sort of backer? Labour supporters
with money seems to be the general idea - the kind of people who set up the
magazine in the 1930s. Three expressions of interest so far and none were
Icelandic. Fingers crossed.

One side-effect of the crisis is more focus on the European Union. If it finds
it so hard to act decisively when the outlook is so bleak, what - critics say -
is the point of the entire thing. We, however, believe the concept has been
invaluable not least because it has allowed Ukip and its outriders to shape how
we are viewed within the EU institutions. Two examples reach us: one concerning
culture, the other crime. The first concerns Tom Wise, who was elected a Ukipian
but now sits as an independent. Currently he is on police bail for an alleged
fraud. He was implored by Veronique De Keyser, a Belgian MEP, to view a film,
the work of her constituents, and one of three movies shortlisted for the Lux
Prize for cinema. To take his mind off things, perhaps, he went along. According
to the email he sent later, this was a mistake. "Colleagues, I wasted 105
minutes of my life watching impenetrable gibberish; the foetid ramblings of a
perverted mind. What a total waste of time, money, resources, hope and
ambition," he told them, before adding: "PS, it will probably win as it sums up
the whole EU project." That said, he is still there. Don't torture yourself,
Tom. Come home.

But this is frippery. Crime is serious. Dirk Sterckx, another Belgian, asks:
"What can the European Union do to protect seafarers and trade?" Gerald Batten,
a Ukip founder and MEP for London, answers: "Do what the Royal Navy used to do -
hunt them down and hang them." And bring back the king's shilling.

There's much to admire and a few things to be worried about when considering the
government's new Young Muslim Advisory Group. It was launched at the Foreign
Office on Tuesday. Jacqui Smith, David Miliband and Hazel Blears were there. The
right notes were struck, but when things become tense and the nuances begin to
matter, it will be essential to ensure that the right people are in charge of
all the preparations. Melton Mowbray may be lovely but it is known the world
over for its pork pies; so whoever decided to ferry the young Muslims there for
the group's first awayday took a bit of a risk, culturally speaking. The issue
is fraught enough as it is.

Finally, news of Atma Singh, Ken Livingstone's former adviser, whose accounts of
extremism and chicanery within London's City Hall were seized upon by those who
fought to remove the former Labour mayor of London so he could be replaced by
the lovable incumbent Tory. Atma's accounts of Trotskyite plotting and electoral
rule-bending marked him out as someone who would one day rise to prominence. Now
he tells us how. Under the heading "Atma Singh, contender for mayor of London in
2012", he writes to Boris Johnson, copying in the Confederation of British
Industry and Alistair Darling, calling for the blond one to convene an urgent
business summit. "This is not a personal issue. I like your personality as mayor
of London," he tells the mayor. But "while I will give you the benefit of the
doubt during the transition period, I will speak out on issues when I have a
difference (on philosophy and policy), specific criticism or specific demand in
my robust style." He has, he writes: "The right to say these things. I am a
London resident, council taxpayer, a UK citizen, mayor of London contender 2012
and a human being born free with dignity." He may be many other things besides,
but Boris had better listen. Look what he did to Ken.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           October 8, 2008 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

The growth industry that is now obesity

BYLINE: Janet Street-Porter

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 911 words


Obesity is big business these days. A conference on the subject this week has
generated the usual doom-ridden headlines. Organised by the National Forum on
Obesity, speaker after speaker produced scary statistics.

Three out of four adults are overweight (the way our Body Mass Index was
previously calculated is now thought to be inaccurate), and the number of
children chronically obese so worrying that one speaker proposed the radical
solution of taking the worst offenders into care and giving them weight-loss
surgery.

Our backsides are spreading so fast that schools will have to order jumbo-sized
furniture. And when we snuff it, our coffins will be too big to fit in existing
crematorium furnaces. So council tax will rise at the same rate as our
chloresterol. It's enough to put you right off that triple-decker sarnie you'd
bought for lunch.

But hang on. There's always another, less exciting version of the true picture.
Let's take a look at who is behind this plethora of fat-phobic news. The
conference (at the Royal College of Physicians) was organised by the National
Obesity Forum. The event was fully booked, attended by healthcare professionals
and local government officers. All no doubt enjoyed an overnight stay in London
and all the drinks and canapes on offer at the end of a gruelling day debating
such pressing matters as what role pharmacy - ie drugs - can play in dealing
with obese patients.

Over lunch, delegates could wander around the exhibition in the college library
and take in the displays mounted by the conferences sponsors - Slim-Fast, and
leading pharmaceutical companies including Roche (makers of Xenical, a weight
loss drug) Sanofi-aventis (makers of Acomplia) and Abbott (makers of Reductil).

A keynote speech was given by Anne Diamond, who has twice undergone surgery and
been given a gastric band to deal with her own weight problem. The problem I
have with Anne Diamond, is not the vulgarity of the jewellery she flogs on QVC,
but the fact that she once took part in a television series, Celebrity Fit Club,
and didn't own up to her fellow team-mates about her gastric band.

Another session was chaired by Dr Hilary Jones, the News of the World columnist
and part-time GP - hardly a man on the coal-face of medical research. Other
speakers gave lectures sponsored by pharmaceutical companies, demonstrating the
unhealthy link between heathcare professionals and the vested interests of the
drug industry. The programme was packed with advertising for various weight-loss
products, the manufacturers of which supplied free gifts to delegates.

The National Obesity Forum was set up in May 2000, and you could argue that they
appear to have been rather unsuccessful in having much impact on the nation's
battle with the bulge. Call me cynical, but obesity has become a growth industry
in Britain, and the number of so-called experts who get paid to speak at events
like this is expanding at about the same rate as the number of consultants
employed by this government.

The bottom line is, we eat too much and we exercise too little. Children need to
learn about nutrition and cookery as soon as they learn to read. Their parents
need to be encouraged and incentivised to learn to cook. It's as simple as that.
We don't need potentially addictive drugs or any more statistics. We are fatter
than we used to be but it's not the end of civilisation as we know it. The
moment I see that drug companies are involved in framing the solution to a
social problem, then I'm worried.

Why this £5m butter advert is Rotten to the core

Thirty-one years after the BBC banned his punk anthem "God Save the Queen", the
former Sex Pistol Johnny Rotten is starring in his first television commercial,
flogging butter and sporting a dazzling array of outfits - from a tweed suit
with bow tie and waistcoat to a tartan dressing gown with clashing check
pyjamas.

The King of Punk gets chased by a herd of cows in a £5m commercial for Country
Life Butter. Rotten is backing Britain, but Dairy Crest, which owns the brand,
claims rising costs could mean lay-offs and factory closures.

Don't blame me (and Kate)

I have received the ultimate accolade - identified by the Daily Mail as one of
the 50 people who have "wrecked" Britain - in a new book by Quentin Letts. My
crime? "Moulding" a media elite who favour youth over everything else.

The wreckers sound like a great bunch, including the distinguished architect
Denys Lasdun and the football manager Sir Alex Ferguson. According to Letts, I'm
a "non-revolutionary" who hangs out with Kate Moss, left, in search of eternal
youth.

It is my second insult in a week. When Nigel Farage, the head of UKIP, a party
with big aspirations and limited success, was bumped off Question Time, he told
newspapers that I only appeared to give the show "gender balance". Female
voters, please take note.

Boris can't compare

As Jacqui Smith and Boris Johnson compile their shortlists of suitable
successors to Sir Ian Blair, they might like to consider how some top coppers
conduct their love lives, and perhaps impose a ban on extra-curricular nooky. I
was astonished to discover that Michael Todd, Chief Constable of Greater
Manchester Police, who some considered would one day be in charge of the Met,
cheated on his wife with up to 12 different women over five years, many of whom
worked with him and have been offered compassionate leave during the inquest
into his death. Boris's past lapses seem piffling in comparison.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 7, 2008 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Old hatchets buried as Labour puts 'the band back together';
* Campbell boosts Brown's campaign team as PM prepares for crucial battles

BYLINE: Andrew Grice POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 658 words


Alastair Campbell is expected to play a key role in Labour's campaign for
crucial European and local elections in June that could decide whether Gordon
Brown leads the party into the general election.

Tony Blair's former director of communications will link up with Peter
Mandelson, the new Business Secretary, and Douglas Alexander, Labour's campaign
co-ordinator - recreating a team that worked with Gordon Brown and Tony Blair at
the 2001 election.

Mr Campbell is also set to play a central role in Labour's campaign for the
general election, expected in the spring of 2010. But he has rebuffed attempts
by Mr Brown to persuade him to return to a full-time post at No 10. Mr Brown's
fightback received a big boost last night when the Parliamentary Labour Party
rallied strongly behind him at its first meeting since the Commons summer break.
George Howarth, one of the rebel MPs who demanded a leadership contest , told
the meeting he had been worried that people had stopped listening to the
Government and that it did not have a clear vision.

"That moment has passed,"he said. "Given that we are in the middle of a
worldwide financial crisis, the right thing for Labour MPs to do is to get
behind the Government."

The Prime Minister urged his MPs to show "unity and determination" and not to be
downhearted by the opinion polls. "People's minds aren't yet set. We have got to
go out to win the arguments on the economy," he said.

Mr Campbell has said he is in no hurry to "give up having a life" by going back
to Number 10 on a full-time basis. However, he is happy to help Labour when it
needs him. This summer, he played an important role in the decision by prominent
Blairites to rally behind Mr Brown.

Mr Alexander, the international development Secretary, will be in charge of
Labour's campaigns for both elections. Mr Mandelson is expected to work closely
with Mr Brown in setting the overall strategy, while Mr Campbell may be based at
Labour Party headquarters. The other key figures will be Liam Byrne, promoted to
Cabinet Office Minister in the weekend reshuffle and Tom Watson, a Brown ally
and junior minister under Mr Byrne.

A Labour source said yesterday: "We are expecting Alastair to return for next
June's elections and to work on the general election. With Peter Mandelson back
on board, we are putting the band back together." Mr Campbell left Number 10 in
2004 when he "became the story" after clashing with the BBC over its allegation
that he "sexed up" a government dossier on Iraq's weapons.

David Kelly, the government weapons expert, killed himself after being unmasked
as the source of the BBC story.

Cabinet ministers might still put Mr Brown under pressure to quit if Labour does
poorly in the "double election" to the European Parliament and local councils
next June. But first he will also have to negotiate the Glenrothes by-election
on 6 November.

Labour insiders recalled that Mr Alexander has managed to keep on good terms
with both Mr Brown and Mr Mandelson even when the two men were barely on
speaking terms: "Douglas was a go-between; he is trusted by both Gordon and
Peter," one Labour party source said

DOMINIC LAWSON, PAGE 25

STEVE RICHARDS, PAGE 29

4 June 2009

Election battleground

*Elections to the 27 county councils and seven unitary authorities in England
are expected on 4 June - the same day as the European Parliament elections. At
the last Euro elections in 2004, Labour won 22.6 per cent of the vote and only
19 of the 78 seats up for grabs. To do worse might spell danger for Gordon
Brown. The Tories may fare better than last time, when they won 26.7 per cent of
the vote and 27 seats, by regaining ground from the UK Independence Party. The
number of county seats will fall from 78 to 72, so Labour must win a bigger
share of the vote to retain as many seats. The seats to be contested were last
fought on the same day as the 2005 general election, so any rise or fall can be
measured against that benchmark.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                             October 5, 2008 Sunday
                                   FB Edition

Brussels anger at top Europe trade job for Baroness of One Parent Families

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin, Simon McGee

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 529 words


GORDON BROWN'S decision to replace Peter Mandelson as European Trade
Commissioner with a little-known Labour peer ran into trouble last night.

Mr Mandelson's abrupt departure from his vital world trade role stunned Brussels
and sparked protests that his replacement, Baroness Ashton, is not up to the
job.

Tories yesterday vowed to challenge the appointment, while European Parliament
sources said that officials were 'truly shocked' that Mr Brown was sending an
'inexperienced' Labour peer to fill Mr Mandelson's shoes.

The Prime Minister had been widely expected to choose seasoned Cabinet Minister
and former Euro-MP Geoff Hoon for the Brussels job.

But it is understood that Mr Brown picked Lady Ashton - who has been a Cabinet
Minister for just 16 months - because appointing Mr Hoon would have triggered a
by-election in his Nottinghamshire constituency of Ashfield, which Labour would
almost certainly have lost.

Mark Francois, the Tories' Europe spokesman, told The Mail on Sunday: 'It's
absolutely typical of Gordon Brown that he has put shoring up his own fragile
position ahead of appointing an experienced Trade Commissioner.

'This is a vital role in restarting stalled World Trade Organisation talks on
freeing up international commerce. Mr Mandelson's replacement simply lacks his
experience and contacts.' Lady Ashton's appointment - agreed by Mr Brown and
European Commission president Jose Manuel Barroso - is expected to be ratified
this week by the EU's Council of Ministers. She will hold the post until October
next year, when Mr Mandelson's term had been due to end.

But Euro-MPs are poised to challenge her appointment in the coming weeks when
they hold a so-called 'confirmation hearing'.

Syed Kamall, a Tory member of the European

Parliament's International Trade Committee, said: 'I suspect Lady Ashton will
face lots of questions when she appears before us.' Nigel Farage, an MEP and
leader of the UK Independence Party, said: 'There will definitely be a debate
over this.

'It's not impossible that we will end up with a Commissioner from another
country being given the brief, with Lady Ashton demoted to a lesser role.'
Labour last night defended its appointment and denied that Lady Ashton - a
former chairman of Hertfordshire Health Authority and a former vice-president of
the National Council for One Parent Families - was unsuited to replacing Mr
Mandelson.

A No10 spokesman said: 'Baroness Ashton has had a very distinguished career. She
has been an economist and has served in Government with distinction.' A European
Commission spokesman insisted that Mr Barroso had full confidence in Lady
Ashton's ability and was 'delighted' that she was taking on the trade brief.

He also defended Mr Mandelson's decision to resign to take up the Cabinet post
of Business Secretary, saying it was not unusual for European Commissioners to
quit before their full term was up.

Mr Mandelson, who will take a seat in the Lords, was on an EU salary of about
£180,000.

He will leave Brussels with a pension entitlement of almost £30,000 a year.

He will also be able to claim resettlement costs of up to £15,000 plus removal
and travel expenses, a Commission spokeswoman said..

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INEXPERIENCED': Baroness Ashton, who a revolt over her appointment by
MEPs

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 2, 2008 Thursday

Comment & Debate: Diary: Hugh Muir

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 680 words


It is now clear, as we tread nervously through the wreckage of the world's
financial systems, that none of us will escape the chill winds of recession. The
City succumbed first (another 2,000 job losses yesterday), but the downward pull
will suck in manufacturing, retailing, transport - every area of our lives. At
cash-strapped ITV News, where staff are coming to terms with 1,000 job cuts and
the end of regional news as we know it, the implications are clear; but at the
BBC they will probably need to get their heads together, find somewhere nice to
talk about it, bond a bit, review, reflect - that sort of thing. To that end,
the corporation's "decision-makers" seek "talented companies" who can facilitate
"a number of brainstorm and programme development events" by offering "brilliant
venues with packages that cover all-day catering, audiovisual and presentation
facilities, break-out areas and friendly staff". Because a little music never
hurt the creative process, the search is also on for "bands who see this as a
great opportunity to promote their work - looking for ethnic music, jazz,
instrumental - anything different and can create buzz" (sic). We know that we
are all going to suffer, but the BBC at least has grasped that a few plans laid
now, in agreeable surroundings, could make all the difference.

With a few tunes and a change of scene, Auntie will get through.

For it is better to have a plan than to thrash around in the dark. The Tories
know this. That's why they are taking lessons about how they might form a
government. Francis Maude told the Conservative conference that key figures are
receiving transitional training from PricewaterhouseCoopers, the theme being
"how government can be made fit for purpose". And one way is to get the excuses
in good and early. "The press demands that politicians be held directly
responsible for what goes on," he said, "but we are more grown-up than that. We
don't expect ministers to be held accountable for every single thing that goes
wrong. There is no need for a scapegoat." This may come as a surprise to Charles
Clarke, Beverley Hughes, Alistair Darling, Jacqui Smith, Peter Hain and the long
list of Labour types for whom being scapegoated became a way of life. But Tories
see life differently. At least they would in office.

Understand more, condemn less. That's the way forward. Ask not why the Tory MEPs
Daniel Hannan and Roger Helmer - those titans of Euroscepticism - were curiously
absent at the fringe meeting specifically convened to debate the European Union.
Perhaps they were "nobbled" by Tory high command who didn't want them on the
same platform as Ukip's Nigel Farage. Perhaps they were "frit", as Ukip says.
Perhaps they had other engagements, books to read, ropes to skip; the point is
that it doesn't matter. We understand. Move on.

We understand why Cameron, as prime minister, would fire those who resort to
dumbing down. His staffer who circulated the list of "Press officer's on duty
during Conservative party conference" would have to find alternative employment.
But this is about the principle.

And we understand the plight of Hardeep Singh Kohli. Why shouldn't he have
walked away from a radio interview when it became clear the interviewer didn't
know what he was talking about? And why shouldn't he have left Gold 08, a
one-day arts festival in east London, on noticing his would-be audience
comprised just 10? He's a mass communicator. What do you expect?

And yet we know none of this may matter, for an admirer of David Icke, the
former sports presenter turned New Age miserablist, rings to tell us the Dow
Jones fell 777.7 points on Monday. If you take the event that occurred
simultaneously - the Jewish New Year of 5769 - and add that figure to the
Christian year, 2008, he said, you also get the figure 7777. This may mean
nothing, but he was jolly excited and it strikes us that if the world does
crash-land, Icke and his cohort will be able to say they were right the whole
time and we should have listened. Armageddon may have an upside. Fancy that.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 2, 2008 Thursday

Paedophile butler introduced one of his teenage victims to the Queen Mother

BYLINE:  Russell Jenkins

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg.21

LENGTH: 582 words


A former royal butler who is facing a jail sentence for having sex with underage
boys once ushered a young victim into conversation with Queen Elizabeth the
Queen Mother at a Clarence House Christmas party.

Paul Kidd, 55, claimed to know the secrets of life below stairs at Buckingham
Palace, where he worked for six years, and charged up to £ 4,000 on the
after-dinner circuit for his "hilarious" anecdotes about royal service.

What he did not talk about was that he also seduced and abused boys. Yesterday,
just before his trial on paedophile charges was due to start in Manchester, he
changed his plea to admit offences covering four decades.

Kidd, of Stalybridge, Cheshire, was appointed butler to the Queen in 1976 and
worked at the Palace for six years before transferring to Clarence House to
carry out similar work for the Queen Mother. He claimed to have looked after
three US presidents and every monarch in Europe during that time, and later
boasted that in 1979 he was awarded the Most Noble Order of Merit by the West
German President.

His secret life was exposed last year after a newspaper carried an interview
with him as part of its coverage of the tenth anniversary of the death of Diana,
Princess of Wales. A victim, now in his forties, complained to police that Kidd
had abused him in the early 1980s, when he was 13 to 16.

When police raided Kidd's flat they discovered indecent videotapes in his locked
safe, and encrypted files containing similar material on his computer.

Altogether he had more than 18,000 images of young boys of various levels of
indecency. It was suggested to the investigating team that the password for his
encrypted files - "pickles" - was the name of a royal corgi.

Examination of the videos led police to a second victim, now 18, who said he had
been abused not only by Kidd but also by a second man, David Hobday, 56, when he
was 14. A third victim told police that he had been abused in the late 1970s. He
said that, as a teenager, he had been taken to the Queen Mother's Christmas
party and introduced to her as a friend over tea.

Kidd's use of a webcam, the number of indecent images, and the sharing of at
least one victim between two men has prompted suggestions that he could have
been part of a larger paedophile ring.

Kidd, who has worked in children's homes and met one of his victims while
working as a nurse, was said by the prosecution team to have an easy charm. One
source described him as a "brilliant" sexual groomer. He had said that he was
bisexual but that he had changed his ways after becoming a practising Christian.
After his arrest he said would leave his fate with God. Kidd, who stood
alongside Hobday in the dock at Minshull Street Crown Court, Manchester,
admitted offences dating from 1975 to 2006.

He pleaded guilty to making indecent images of children, possessing indecent
images of children, indecent assault, sexual activity with a child, sexual
touching of a child and causing or inciting a child to engage in sexual
activity. Hobday, of Dukinfield, Tameside, pleaded guilty to sexual activity
with a child and possessing an indecent video of a child.

Judge Khokar told the men that they were likely to be jailed. He ordered that
they be held in custody while pre-sentence reports were drawn up.

Kidd, who has a son who lives in America, stood as a UKIP candidate in
Dukinfield and Stalybridge in last year's local government elections. He has
been suspended from the party.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           October 1, 2008 Wednesday

And finally..

SECTION: SPORT; Pg.78

LENGTH: 71 words


They proudly wave their "Scouse Separatist" flags at Anfield, but there is one
Liverpool fan with isolationist leanings of an unusually right-wing hue among
Kopites. Paul Nuttall, the chairman of the United Kingdom Independence Party, is
a season ticket-holder on the Kop. Wonder what he makes of the "Maggie, Maggie,
Maggie, Out! Out! Out!" chant that has made a comeback at the back of the famous
stand over the past two years?

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
