
                               1 of 13 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           August 24, 2005, Wednesday

Kenneth Clarke's surprising change of heart on the euro

SECTION: Features; Letters to the Editor Pg. 023

LENGTH: 20 words

SIR - At this rate, we'll have Michael Heseltine standing for Ukip's leadership.

David Spark

Great Ayton, N Yorks

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               2 of 13 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 23, 2005, Tuesday

Millions built up from DIY

BYLINE: Nic Hopkins

SECTION: Home news; 3

LENGTH: 271 words


THE reclusive Healey brothers, Eddie and Malcolm, built their immense fortune
with business skills honed three decades ago in their father Stanley's
Hull-based painting and decorating store.

The brothers started working for the family's Status Discount business with
their elder brother John.

Malcolm, 60, the younger of the two, was the first to venture out on his own
when in 1976 when he set up Humber Kitchens, which began by supplying materials
to the family's stores.

Four years later Eddie and John sold Status Discount to MFI for £30 million.

While John retired to Portugal, Eddie, now 66, had gone into business with Paul
Sykes, a fellow Yorkshireman and recent millionaire donor to the UK Independence
Party.

They took a neglected 125acre site in Sheffield and on it developed the
Meadowhall shopping complex, which became Britain's most lucrative out-of-town
retail centre.

In 1999 Meadowhall was sold to British Land for £1.17 billion, of which Eddie
took about £420 million.

Around the same time, Malcolm returned to Britain and set up United Kitchens,
which became a rare failure when it was put into receivership in 2000. He lost
about £30 million.

Malcolm now lives in the 10,500-acre Warter Priory estate in Yorkshire,
previously owned by the Marquess of Normanby. He paid £48 million for it in
1998, beating competition from Sir Mick Jagger and Sir Elton John.

Eddie, who lives in Kirk Ella, continues to invest in property. He recently
acquired a Hull retail park for £30 million and is investing in Soccer Domes
with the JJB Sports millionaire Dave Whelan.


LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               3 of 13 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                August 16, 2005

Davis silent on rule change as Tory leadership contest hots up

BYLINE: Michael White, Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 454 words


The frontrunner in the Conservative leadership contest is refusing to campaign
for, or against, the change in the contest's rules that may decide his fate, it
emerged last night.

As another Tory moderniser warned his party that its problem is that it "does
not like modern Britain," friends of David Davis, who looks set to succeed
Michael Howard in the autumn, revealed that it would be "too dangerous" for him
to take sides in the divisive rule change.

Francis Maude, Mr Howard's choice as interim party chairman and a likely
supporter of David Cameron for the top job, yesterday joined the debate on
whether the Tories had been too rightwing to win the May 5 election.

Their problem was their image, not their policies, he said. "That's why I think
our fundamental problem today is that people attribute values to us that are not
good values.

"They don't think we're in touch with modern Britain, they don't think we
understand modern Britain, or that we like modern Britain," Mr Maude told the
ePolitix website.

All contenders are gently nursing their support ahead of an expected October
contest if the rules are changed - and a costlier fight in January if the
grassroots keep the last word.

Mr Davis, the shadow home secretary, is generally thought to be unstoppable if
representatives of the party activists refuse to endorse Mr Howard's proposal to
restore the final decision of party leader to MPs - and insist on keeping that
decision for themselves.

Only if activists agree to the rule change do left-leaning Tory MPs expect
Kenneth Clarke, the ex-chancellor, to enter the field. He won the last contest
he fought among MPs, only to be defeated in the final ballot by activists who
loathed his pro-European record.

Davis supporters know that this issue divides their supporters and claim it
would be better to let 900 local bigwigs reach their own decision in a ballot on
September 27.

In any case, they believe that Mr Davis can win under either version - with an
electorate of 300,000 activists or 198 MPs - because wavering MPs with marginal
seats will calculate that a Clarke leadership will boost the UKIP vote among
Euro-sceptic Tory voters, putting their seats at risk.

Clarke-ites believe their man is the only Tory beast big enough to squash Tony
Blair and Gordon Brown, provided that the EU stays on the back burner.

Rivals say that Mr Clarke, with an alleged 26 votes so far, would see off Mr
Cameron. But some ex-Clarke-ites believe he is too old and have gone over to Mr
Cameron (38) or Mr Davis (56). Sir Malcolm Rifkind (59), a former foreign
secretary, is not cutting the mustard. One opponent said: "He did have five
votes, he's now down to three."


LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               4 of 13 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            August 14, 2005, Sunday

Kilroy-Silk does 'little or no work' and should quit, say MEPs

BYLINE: BY J USTIN STARES i n Brussels

SECTION: News; Pg. 009

LENGTH: 332 words

A CROSS-PARTY coalition has called for Robert Kilroy-Silk to quit the European
Parliament on the grounds that he seldom attends and does "little or no work"
for his East Midlands constituency.

In the letter to the parliament's president Josep Borrell, four MEPs, who all
represent the East Midlands, say Mr Kilroy-Silk is not "fulfilling the pledge he
made on becoming an MEP, to serve the electorate of his region".

The letter marks a new low in the political career of Mr Kilroy-Silk. Having
resigned from two Euro-sceptic parties, the UK Independence Party and the
Right-wing Veritas Party, he currently sits as a non-aligned member in the
chambers of Brussels and Strasbourg.

His four regional colleagues - Christopher Heaton-Harris (Conservative), Roger
Helmer (Conservative), Phillip Whitehead (Labour) and Derek Clark (Ukip) - said
they "deplore" Mr Kilroy-Silk's non-attendance. "He seems to have done little or
no work as a constituency MEP for the East Midlands. This leaves five MEPs to do
the work of six and the electorate have been short-changed," they wrote.

"Mr Kilroy-Silk should either do the job for which he is paid, or get out and
leave it to those who can."

The parliament has no power to remove Mr Kilroy-Silk, who is understood to have
attended the minimum number of plenary sessions required to be eligible for his
parliamentary allowances. "While Mr Kilroy-Silk will remain within the letter of
the law, he will hardly be fulfilling the pledge he made on becoming an MEP, to
serve the electorate of his region," the MEPs wrote.

Mr Kilroy-Silk last signed the plenary session attendance register on April 12.

Mr Heaton-Harris and Mr Whitehead have followed up their Brussels protest with a
letter to local newspapers calling for Mr Kilroy-Silk to go. "He seems to
specialise in resignation. So it is time for him to do the decent thing and
resign from the European parliament," they wrote.

Last night, Mr Kilroy-Silk refused to comment on the protest.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               5 of 13 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                August 13, 2005

EU RED TAPE SWAMPS BLAIR

BYLINE: Michael Lea, European Correspondent

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 202 words


ALMOST 500 Brussels rulings have been passed in just ONE month of Tony Blair
becoming EU president.

The PM vowed that slashing red tape was a priority of the UK's six-month stint
in charge of the EU.

But 463 directives, regulations and decisions have been passed to further
strangle British businesses since last month's handover.

One measure affects the export of egg yolks, another concerns the import of
scallops.

And 344 EU draft laws are still awaiting approval. One -bafflingly relating to a
"statute for the European company" -is 35 YEARS old. Also gathering dust is a
1997 diktat on food labelling and a 1985 ruling on cosmetics. Before taking over
the EU presidency, Mr Blair, left, said red tape had damaged the EU more "than
all the pamphlets by Eurosceptics could ever do".

Last night UKIP leader Roger Knapman said UK firms were hit daily with new laws.

He said: "This is the total burden added to British industry in a single month -
when many legislators are on holiday."

Tory MEP Timothy Kirkhope said it was "totally absurd" to have 344 draft laws
collecting dust.

The European Commission is now screening the drafts to "judge their usefulness
and quality".


LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               6 of 13 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                August 12, 2005

24% swing to SNP in council byelection

LENGTH: 379 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Scottish National party was today celebrating victory in a
council byelection near the Livingston Westminster constituency, where Robin
Cook's death means a byelection will shortly be fought.


The Scottish National party was today celebrating victory in a council
byelection near the Livingston Westminster constituency, where Robin Cook's
death means a byelection will shortly be fought.

SNP candidate John McNally seized Falkirk's Herbertshire seat on a 24.4% swing
compared with the May 2003 town hall contests, which were on the same day as
those for the Holyrood parliament.

Falkirk council, which remains with no overall control, borders on West Lothian
council, which covers Livingston - Mr Cook's parliamentary seat.

The SNP triumph is a blow to Labour but possibly also a setback for the Liberal
Democrats who did not fight the council byelection. They might have hoped for a
further advance in the Commons contest after coming second in votes and seats in
Scotland at the general election.

There was better news for Labour in England and Wales. Its candidate John Bell,
a former Nottinghamshire county councillor, gained a Broxtowe borough council
seat from the Liberal Democrats at Stapleford South West.

He may have been helped by a surge in the third-placed Conservative vote.

Meanwhile, the Tories easily retained a Rhiw seat at Conwy County borough, north
Wales.

Plaid Cymru came third in the ward where it returned one of the three
councillors last year. It is in Clwyd West constituency, one of three Welsh
seats won by the Tories in May.

However, in a late result from last week, the Conservatives came close to losing
their Gorleston stronghold at Great Yarmouth Borough to the Liberal Democrats.

Results

Broxtowe Borough - Stapleford South West: Lab 406, Lib Dem 353, Con 278. (May
2003 - Two seats Lib Dem 496, 471, Lab 465, 453, Con 174, 173). Lab gain from
Lib Dem. Swing 3.7% Lab to Lib Dem.

Conwy County Borough - Rhiw: Con 658, Lib Dem 209, Plaid Cymru 147. (June 2004 -
Three seats Con 1003, Plaid Cymru 760, Con 751, 739, Ind 502, Lab 344, Ind 337).
Con hold. Swing 23.7% Plaid Cymru to Con.

Falkirk Council - Herbertshire: SNP 1019, Lab 532, Con 46, Scottish Socialist
Party 29. (May 2003 - Lab 947, SNP 618, Con 182). SNP gain from Lab. Swing 24.4%
Lab to SNP.

From last week

Great Yarmouth Borough - Gorleston: Con 369, Lib Dem 278, Lab 242, UKIP 51.
(June 2004 - Two seats Con 860, 841, Lib Dem 351, Lab 311, 291). Con hold. Swing
11.7% Con to Lib Dem.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               7 of 13 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 August 9, 2005

Education: Opinion: Peter Knight finds himself locked in an unending tussle with
door knobs

BYLINE: Dr Peter Knight

SECTION: Guardian Education Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 713 words


What is the worst invention in the past 10 years? What has done most to
inconvenience, irritate and annoy the human race? Nominations might include GM
foods, the UK Independence party, political "spin", or almost any advertisement
for cars. All these pale into insignificance when compared with my nomination
for the most annoying and downright useless device that we never knew we needed.
Yes, I am talking about digital key-code locks.

You know the things I mean. They are usually made of tasteless shiny aluminium
and are stuck on doors with the sole purpose of making said doors impossible to
open.

They have tiny little numbered buttons that you need to push in a certain
sequence provided that you (a) know the bloody sequence and (b) have fingers no
wider than a pencil in order to push one button at a time. You also need to
ensure your other hand is completely sweat-free so that you can turn the
slippery knob. Usually you have to pull the knob outwards, twist to the left and
then turn it to the right. While your other arm (yes, I know, you need three
arms, but I didn't invent the thing) pulls the normal door handle to open the
actual door. It is harder to get into than the Freemasons.

Some enthusiast in the university must have bulk-ordered about 1,000 of these
devices, as they have started to spring up everywhere. I used to be able to
wander aimlessly into offices and chat to people. This was a good method of
preventing me from actually deciding anything.

I discovered over long years of experience that deciding things in universities
only leads to unpleasantness, whereas aimless confusion produces a
higher-quality result. But no longer; my way is barred by digital key-code
locks.

It would help if I could memorise the codes, but they are all different. A few
are easy. To gain access to the empire of offices in the Academic Quality and
Standards Division at the University of Central England is comparatively easy.
1-2-0-9, and you're in. As should be obvious, codes need to be memorable and
everyone knows that Standard University Undergraduate Regulation 12.0.9 is one
of AQSD's favourites ("Procedure to be followed when making an appeal for
extenuating circumstances to be considered by the board of examiners").

The doors guarding the entrance to the directorate at UCE are another matter.
There is a gruesome key-code lock on the lower corridor that always defeated me.
It was like a cat-flap set for one-way traffic. You could get out, but getting
back in was simply not possible. Once through, you were out for the night.
Fortunately, one day the door was hit by one of our less dainty colleagues, who
was carrying three bags of shopping from Asda. Conser vation of momentum is a
wonderful bit of physics and the restraining bolts on the door bent just enough.
Now, if the vindictive key-code lock locks you out, a judicious lean on the door
springs the catch and you're in!

The upper lock immediately outside the directorate is made of more serious
stuff. We had it fitted years ago after an invasion by that notorious oxymoron,
the Socialist Workers. The door is steel lined with magnetic locks strong enough
to glue an elephant to a cliff. As per usual, a magic number is required for
entry, and the number has to be memorable. Taking into account the failing
mental faculties of the more senior staff, "achingly obvious" is the actual
requirement. So what's the number? 42! Actually 4242 to be correct. After all 42
is the answer to life, the universe and everything and if we can't remember that
we don't deserve to be let in. So if you are locked out of UCE and you don't
know the number of the lock, try "42". It usually works.

For sheer style there is an Oxford college that has used the same entry code on
the digital lock giving access to the Warden's guest accommodation for the last
10 years. The number is the date of the foundation of the college, 1379. Clearly
only reliable and trustworthy people of breeding will know that information so
it must be completely safe. It would be grossly irresponsible of me to reveal
which college uses this code, but given the longevity of Oxford colleges it must
be a "new" one.

Dr Peter Knight is vice-chancellor of the University of Central England


LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               8 of 13 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 August 7, 2005

CURB THESE PREACHERS OF HATRED; CALL FOR TREASON LAWS TO CHANGE

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer Political Editor

SECTION: Scottish Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 332 words


TONY Blair faced demands last night for a new treason law for terrorists and
hate preachers living in Britain.

The Prime Minister was urged to bring the UK's archaic laws up to date to tackle
suicide bombers who have "declared war on their own country".

MPs and MEPs joined forces to call for laws similar to those in the American
constitution.

And they demanded British citizens planning, carrying out, assisting with, or
offering practical support to terrorism should be open to charges of treason -
and face serious penalties.

The calls were backed by Tory vice-chairman Andrew Rosindell and defence
spokesman Gerald Howarth.

Mr Rosindell, MP for Romford in Essex, said: "Treason is something that needs to
be restored as a serious crime.

"Verbally trashing this country in a way that inspires hatred and potential
terrorism is treason by any other name. There should be powers to strip someone
of their citizenship."

Mr Howarth, MP for Aldershot, Hants, who has called for Muslims who do not owe
allegiance to Britain or like the way of life to get out of the country, said:
"These people are preaching sedition, which is levying war on the Queen in her
own land.

"The old law of treason was brought in to protect the integrity of the kingdom
and there's no reason why it should not be used and updated now."

Ukip Euro MP Gerard Batten, in a letter to Home Secretary Charles Clarke, said:
"The suicide bombings in London have shown the need for new treason laws to deal
with British citizens involved in terrorist attacks.

"Our current treason laws are archaic. Britain should redefine its treason laws
along the lines of the US. The British suicide bombers have declared war on
their own country.

"Terrorists and those who assist them in any way should be charged with treason,
and a conviction should carry the maximum penalty possible.

"We have been far too tolerant for far too long and that misplaced tolerance has
now endangered lives."

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               9 of 13 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 August 7, 2005

CALLS GROW FOR TREASON LAW TO CURB PREACHERS OF HATE

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer Political Editor

SECTION: Lancashire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 437 words


TONY BLAIR faced demands last night for a new treason law to crack down on
terrorists and hate preachers living in Britain.

The Prime Minister was urged to bring the UK's archaic treason laws up to date
to tackle British suicide bombers who have "declared war on their own country
and its citizens".

MPs and MEPs called for Britain to bring in laws similar to those in the
American constitution. And they demanded that British citizens planning,
carrying out, assisting with, or offering practical support to terrorism should
be open to charges of treason - and face serious penalties.

The calls were backed by Tory vice-chairman Andrew Rosindell and the party's
defence spokesman Gerald Howarth. Mr Rosindell said: "Treason is something that
needs to be restored as a serious crime and something that will be acted upon.

"Verbally trashing this country in a way that inspires hatred and potential
terrorism is treason by any other name. There should be powers to strip someone
of their citizenship.

Mr Rosindell added: "So-called British citizens should not think they have got
an absolute right to be British come what may. It is a privilege to be British
and you have responsibilities as well as rights - and you don't have the right
to inspire wickedness and hatred within our own shores.

"Where we have people preaching hatred towards this country and its citizens, I
don't care if they are born here or naturalised, if they go beyond a certain
line, action will be taken."

Mr Howarth said: "These people are preaching sedition, which is levying war on
the Queen in her own land.

"The old law of treason was brought in to protect the integrity of the kingdom
and there's no reason why it should not be used and updated now."

Mr Howarth, who has called for Muslims who do not owe allegiance to Britain or
like the way of life to get out of the country, added: "Some of these people are
saying it is perfectly legitimate to attack our armed forces. That should be a
treasonable offence."

Ukip Euro MP Gerard Batten, in a letter to Home Secretary Charles Clarke, said:
"The suicide bombings in London have shown the need for new treason laws to deal
with British citizens involved in terrorist attacks.

"Our current treason laws are archaic. Britain should redefine its treason laws
along the lines of the US.

"Terrorists and those who assist them in any way should be charged with treason,
and a conviction should carry the maximum penalty possible.

"We have been far too tolerant of those who hate our way of life and that
misplaced tolerance has now endangered lives."

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               10 of 13 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 August 7, 2005

CALLS GROW FOR TREASON LAW TO CURB PREACHERS OF HATE

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer Political Editor

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 508 words


TONY BLAIR was facing demands last night for a new treason law to crack down on
terrorists and hate preachers living in Britain.

The Prime Minister was urged to bring the UK's archaic treason laws up to date
to tackle British suicide bombers who have "declared war on their own country
and its citizens".

MPs and MEPs joined forces to call for Britain to bring in laws similar to those
in the American constitution.

And they demanded that British citizens planning, carrying out, assisting with,
or offering practical support to terrorism should be open to charges of treason
- and face serious penalties.

The calls were backed by Tory vice-chairman Andrew Rosindell and the party's
defence spokesman Gerald Howarth. Mr Rosindell, MP for Romford in Essex, said:

"Treason is something that needs to be restored as a serious crime and something
that will be acted upon.

"Verbally trashing this country in a way that inspires hatred and potential
terrorism is treason by any other name. There should be powers to strip someone
of their citizenship.

Mr Rosindell added: "Socalled British citizens should not think they have got an
absolute right to be British come what may. It is a privilege to be British and
you have responsibilities as well as rights - and you don't have the right to
inspire wickedness and hatred within our own shores.

"People who do that lose the right to be British. If the Government had the
courage to introduce a new law on treason, we could get rid of people who are
against this country. Where we have people preaching hatred towards this country
and its citizens, I don't care if they are born here or naturalised, if they go
beyond a certain line, action will be taken."

Mr Howarth, MP for Aldershot, Hants, said: "These people are preaching sedition,
which is levying war on the Queen in her own land.

"The old law of treason was brought in to protect the integrity of the kingdom
and there's no reason why it should not be used and updated now."

Mr Howarth, who has called for Muslims who do not owe allegiance to Britain or
like the way of life to get out of the country, added: "The fact is that we do
face a very serious threat in this country. This is about defending our kingdom.
Some of these people are saying it is perfectly legitimate to attack our armed
forces. That should be a treasonable offence."

Ukip Euro MP Gerard Batten, in a letter to Home Secretary Charles Clarke, said:
"The suicide bombings in London have shown the need for new treason laws to deal
with British citizens involved in terrorist attacks.

"Our current treason laws are archaic. Britain should redefine its treason laws
along the lines of the US. The British suicide bombers have declared war on
their own country.

"Terrorists and those who assist them in any way should be charged with treason,
and a conviction should carry the maximum penalty possible.

"We have been far too tolerant of those who hate our way of life and that
misplaced tolerance has now endangered lives."

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               11 of 13 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 August 7, 2005

UKIP'S CALL FOR NEW TREASON LAWS STRIKES THE RIGHT NOTE; LEADER COLUMN

SECTION: Scottish Edition; LEADER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 262 words


WE REPORT today that a member of the UK Independence Party has called for new
treason laws to deal with terrorists and their supporters.

Gerard Batten believes we should follow the example of the United States.

His proposals include the repeal of the Human Rights Act, a redefinition of the
laws on treason to clarify exactly what treason is, the power to deport
non-British troublemakers and the threat to revoke citizenship.

Ukip has not always commanded the greatest respect when it has entered the
political debate but these proposals will strike a chord with many people in
this country. For, along with all the talk about "human rights" in recent years,
there has been a total failure to discuss human responsibilities. If someone
makes their home in Britain, then they must not only seek to assimilate into the
community but to uphold the British way of life.

And listening to some of the apologists for terrorism this week has been hair
raising. The British have a long and fine tradition of tolerance towards those
with different beliefs but it has gone too far. The dissemination of wicked,
anti-British propaganda must stop. Indeed, it is a cause for disbelief that we
have allowed the situation to develop as far as it has done. Surely the existing
rules regarding treason, or at least those preventing incitement to violence,
could have been put into use before now?

Mr Batten has some good ideas and, above all, we should listen to the first one:
repeal the Human Rights Act, which has prevented us deporting so many
undesirables.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               12 of 13 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 6, 2005, Saturday

LETTER: A CULTURE OF BLAME AGAINST MUSLIMS

BYLINE: GLYN FORD MEP

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 77 words


Sir: Why is Gerald Howarth so picky ('Senior Tory MP tells Muslims: 'If you
don't like our way of life, get out", 4 August)? Why not extend the offer to
British born members of the BNP, the lunatic fringe of UKIP and the direct
action wing of the Countryside Alliance? After all they are as much out of touch
with the ethos of 21st Century Britain as many of Gerald Howarth's Muslims.

GLYN FORD MEP

(SOUTH WEST ENGLAND) CINDERFORD, GLOUCESTERSHIRE

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               13 of 13 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             August 1, 2005, Monday

Galileo and GPS

SECTION: Features; 16

LENGTH: 248 words


From Mr Richard Peckham

Sir, As a UK engineer working on the Galileo satellite project, I challenge the
claim by the UKIP MEP Gerard Batten (letter, July 25) that Galileo, any more
than the existing US military GPS, is a "spy in the sky". The Galileo satellites
are transmitters only; they have no knowledge of the position of anyone.

What should perhaps be of more concern to UKIP is our growing dependence on
satellite-based position and time for everyday applications. GPS is widely used
by the road, maritime and aviation transport sectors for navigation, but also by
industry and governments for asset tracking, logistics management, synchronising
power and communications networks, surveying, prospecting, etc.

The use of satellite-based position and time will soon be an intrinsic part of
all of our lives as we use it to dodge traffic jams, dock ships, land aircraft
or find restaurants.

Are we happy to place complete dependence for critical infrastructure on the US
Defence Department, which provides GPS with no guarantees on a "use at your
risk" basis?

Or would we rather have a compatible and complementary (back-up) system under
European civil control, with service guarantees and with an accessible European
commercial operator? I can also assure Mr Batten that there is no transfer of
critical technologies to China, which will merely be providing some hardware for
the ground and space sub-systems.

RICHARD PECKHAM, Hillsea, Portsmouth


LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited
