
                                1 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               November 30, 2005

LABOUR ATTACK ENGLISH

BYLINE: Michael Lea

LENGTH: 381 words


Flag-waving sport fans branded as 'extremists'

EXCLUSIVE A LABOUR Party official caused outrage last night after suggesting
sports fans who wave the England flag are racist.

The outburst came from Terry White, of Labour's Communications Unit, in an email
to a member of the public.

It followed a row last week when ex-minister Gisela Stuart claimed the rise of
Englishness is a threat to democracy. German-born Ms Stuart said she is
concerned people claim to be English rather than British.

The man who complained, named only as Allan Murray, wrote: "Why is it that as a
party you dislike the English so much? I am fed up to the back teeth with
Labour's endless dumbing down of the English. The Labour Party are trying to
wipe England off the UK map."

Mr White, who is 65 and near retirement, wrote back: "England, as opposed to
Britain, has an unfortunate history around the world and within the British
Isles and please do not say that it is all past.

"It is a fact that the right and extreme right in Britain cloak themselves in
the English flag, the cross of St George and claim to be the true
representatives of the English.

Outraged

"Wherever there is hooligan behaviour, usually linked to extreme right-wing
political groups eg, at football matches here and abroad, it is the flag of St
George that is displayed."

Millions of flag-wavers will be outraged by the attack on fans.

After England's rugby World Cup triumph a million supporters packed the streets
of London to cheer their heroes home many draped in the St George's flag. There
were similar scenes after the England cricket team trounced the Aussies.

Conservative MP Andrew Rosindell raged: "I find these comments insulting and
outrageous.

"People will be very angry to hear what Labour thinks of them and their
country."

UKIP leader Roger Knapman said: "This is an insult to our own people. To suggest
that England, but not Britain, has 'an unfortunate history', is sheer ignorance.

If Labour is seeking to disown the Empire, then it should be told that it was
the British, not English, Empire."

A Labour spokesman said: "We cannot condone these comments and they in no way
represent the views of the Party. We apologise unreservedly for any offence
caused."


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                                2 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 22, 2005

ULTIMATE DETERRENT SHOULD BE IMPOSED BY DEGREES

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 151 words


LORD Stevens is right to call for a return to the death penalty ("Police killers
must hang", November 21) but it should not only apply to the murderers of police
officers.

Like the USA, Britain should introduce degrees of murder that allow for the
death penalty to be imposed by the courts for certain categories of murder - for
example, premeditated murder, murder in the pursuit of another crime and child
murders.

However, what Lord Stevens doesn't seem to realise is that under European Union
law, Britain would not be allowed to reintroduce the death penalty.

The European Convention on Human Rights does not allow EU member states to have
the death penalty, and indeed the death penalty is banned in all circumstances,
including wartime.

Inside the European Union, Britain does not have the freedom to reintroduce the
death penalty.

Gerard Batten MEP, UK Independence Party

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                                3 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           November 20, 2005, Sunday

Is Beel House up for sale again?

BYLINE: Louise Armitstead

SECTION: Business; Business; 14

LENGTH: 181 words


* IS Beel House, above, up for sale again? This rather grand establishment,
nestled in the nouveau-riche heartland of Buckinghamshire, has been the home of
Dirk Bogarde, the gay actor, Ozzy Osbourne, the bat- eating rocker who turned
into a reality TV star, and the founders of the Tate & Lyle fortune. It is now
the official residence of Robert Kilroy-Silk, the perma-tan TV presenter best
known for his right-wing views on Abroad.

But now I hear that Kilroy-Silk, who once had ambitions to lead the UK
Independence party (Ukip), is planning to move on, too.

Friends say he is toying with the idea of selling the Grade II-listed 17th
century Georgian mansion, which has eight bedrooms and comes with its own deer
herd.

"It's an early thought, but he's had it valued and he's talking about putting it
on the market if he doesn't get a private sale," said someone close to
Kilroy-Silk.

When Prufrock called to check it out, the lady of the house refused to confirm
it was for sale, saying that it was a private matter.

Watch this space.

Stefan Rousseau


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Prufrock; Opinion

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                                4 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               November 19, 2005

Saturday: Imagine my surprise: There's no such thing as the European Union

BYLINE: Barbara Toner

SECTION: Guardian Saturday Comment Pages, Pg. 28

LENGTH: 705 words


Tales of mystery and imagination must be confronted. In a week that gave us the
man who cured himself of HIV and the mobile phone with a brother-tracking
option, nothing was as slippery as the EU's accounts. Imagine our surprise when
we found they made no sense for the 11th year running and nobody was overly
bothered. Were our accounts unverifiable to the tune of £62bn in a single tax
year, we'd have had to surrender the house. And the telly.

Brussels is apparently surrendering nothing, though the Court of Auditors was
unable to vouch for its agricultural spending, its structural fund payments, its
internal policy payments or its external actions payment because they were
"materially affected by errors". Nobody explained the nature of the errors and
Brussels hasn't said where the money went. We all know what agricultural
spending is, obviously - paying farmers for produce nobody wants so they don't
produce it - but what's everything else, and how come they cost more than £62bn?
We can only wonder. Just as we can only wonder why 10 previous years of accounts
materially affected by errors have alarmed nobody enough for the fraud squad to
be brought in.

I have a theory. They can't be brought in because there's nobody to investigate.
There's no such thing as a European Union. The EU is a virus, capable of
splitting itself into a zillion bureaucrats and MEPs, which sucks money from
taxpayers across Europe - now an all-embracing word to mean anyone daft enough
to want to be in it. It can infect farmers with money but nobody else, certainly
nobody I know, and it swallows the rest. When the Court of Auditors demands
answers every year, it mutates, leaving nobody accountable except Geoffrey
Titford, the budgetary spokesman for the UK Independence party, who this week
thundered softly, "It's unacceptable".

It's actually unbelievable. As seemed to be the claim by Andrew Stimpson that he
had rid himself not only of the HIV virus but also its antibodies. Specialists
said they'd never known it happen before. Mr Stimpson, who is only 25, had
tested HIV antibody-positive in 2002, when he'd also been shown to have had very
low levels of HIV. Fourteen months later, tests showed he was clear of both. He
took legal action against the Chelsea and Westminster NHS Trust, believing
they'd made a horlicks of the tests and so placed him at risk. Thinking he had
nothing to lose, he'd had unprotected sex with his HIV-positive partner. But the
NHS Litigation Authority found all the tests had been accurate.

Amazing? Couldn't be more so, if, after 20 million deaths from Aids since 1981,
Mr Stimpson holds the key to curing it. Everyone has a theory. They include his
unique genetic resistance to the virus, the susceptible nature of the strain he
contracted and the chance he developed immunity as a result of steady exposure
to the virus from his partner. What confuses the issue, sadly for Mr Stimpson,
is the possibility of a mistake, such as contamination of his blood in the lab.
It will undermine all joy until he agrees to more tests, an idea which so far he
has resisted. The discovery of a material error will destroy the lifeline he'd
never imagined would be handed to him, so he'd rather nobody went looking.

No material errors can account for the wizardry displayed by my husband's phone
when he answered it last weekend at a family party. He didn't recognise the
caller's voice, so asked who it was. It was Kevin, looking for his brother, Ian.
My husband said he wasn't Ian and he didn't know anyone called Kevin. The caller
gave Ian's surname. My husband thought it was a joke, or a virus. There was a
man across the room with that very name. He called to him. Did he have a brother
called Kevin? "It's a wind-up," said Ian. But it wasn't. The telephone number of
my husband's mobile had been Ian's 10 years ago and Kevin had never updated it.
He'd dialled it, and the man to whom it had been allocated not only knew his
brother but was standing feet away from him. What were the chances of that? We
don't know. Someone said 40 million to one. No longer than the odds on the EU
coming up with honest accounts obviously, but shorter, we hope, than a miracle
cure for Aids.


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                                5 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               November 16, 2005

Politics: Party attracts £3.7m in donations

BYLINE: David Hencke, Westminster correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 171 words


Cash from wealthy donors and trade unions is still flooding into the Labour
party after its election victory, according to the latest quarterly figures
released by the Electoral Commission.

The party attracted £3.7m between July and September. The biggest donations came
from the steel magnate Lakshmi Mittal, who gave £2m, the City financier Derek
Tuckett, £100,000, and Lord Carter, the chairman of Sport England, £50,000.
Usdaw, representing shopworkers, gave £223,000; Unison more than £400,000; and
GMB more than £300,000.

The Tories received £950,000 from private donations. Some £93,000 came from a
new anonymous source, which led yesterday to the New Politics Network thinktank
to call for the loophole whereby donors can remained anonymous behind
unincorporated associations to be closed.

The Liberal Democrats got nearly £700,000. The commission is to investigate late
declarations totalling £49,881 by the Tories, £27,349 by the Lib Dems, £20,000
by Ukip and £9,100 by Labour.


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                                6 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 16, 2005, Wednesday

POLITICS: DONATIONS TO LABOUR OUTSTRIP TORIES

BYLINE: BY BEN RUSSELL POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 238 words


Labour received £1.3m more in donations than the Tories in the three months
following the general election in May.

Statistics released by the Electoral Commission showed that Labour was given
£3.72m between July and September, compared with £2.36m for the Tories. The
Liberal Democrats recorded donations totalling just under £700,000.

Labour's total was boosted by a £2m donation from the steel tycoon Lakshmi
Mittal. Paul Marland, the Conservatives' treasurer, gave the Conservative Party
£45,000.

But the New Politics Foundation, a think-tank, warned that some major party
donors could remain anonymous by giving money through 'unincorporated
associations'.

Peter Facey, director of the foundation, warned that extremist parties could use
the loophole to hide the source of donations.

He said: 'The intention of the Political Parties Elections and Referendums Act
was to prevent individuals from making anonymous donations, yet the loophole
allowing unincorporated associations to make donations is now being stretched to
breaking point.'

The three main political parties were rebuked by the Electoral Commission for
failing to declare donations on time. In its quarterly report, the commission
said there had been late declarations totalling £49,881 by the Tories, £27,349
by the Liberal Democrats and £9,100 by Labour. The UK Independence Party made a
late declaration of £20,000.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                                7 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               November 15, 2005

And, surprise, its accounts aren't signed off for the 11th year running

SECTION: ED_3RD_04; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 220 words


THE EU's accounts were attacked by auditors last night for the 11th year
running.

The Court of Auditors said it could not vouch for almost all of the Pounds
68billion spent by Brussels last year because fraud checks were still not in
place.

It rejected calls to put a positive spin on the figures and said it could not
sign off around 90 per cent of the budget, as has been the case for the past
decade.

Court President Hubert Weber told the budgetary control committee that he could
not vouch for the EU's agricultural spending, its structural fund payments, its
internal policy payments or its external actions payments.

'The court is again not in a position to provide an unqualified opinion,' he
said.

'The supervisory and control systems are not yet implemented and operating
effectively and payments are still materially affected by errors. And as in
previous years, the court found evidence that expenditure under the Common
Agricultural Policy was still materially affected by errors.' In another area,
there was evidence of ineligible items, some items were declared twice and in
some cases public procurement rules were not respected.

'Here we go again for the 11th year in a row. It's unacceptable,' said Geoffrey
Titford MEP, budgetary spokesman for the UK Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                                8 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               November 14, 2005

Auditors blast EU's lost billions

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 273 words


AUDITORS are today expected to refuse to approve the European Union accounts for
the 11th year running because of fraud and mismanagement costing an estimated
Pounds 3.5billion a year.

The European Court of Auditors has consistently argued that it cannot approve
the budget, now standing at Pounds 68billion a year, because there are
insufficient controls over how a large part of the money is spent.

The court will present its report to MEPs in the European Parliament's budget
committee today before a debate in the Strasbourg parliament tomorrow.

'Because the court has to be objective, our message is not always nice to hear
and not always welcome,' said Victor Caldeira, a court member. 'The court has
been unable to give assurances about the legality and regularity of a large part
of EU spending.' The auditors have for the past decade raised questions
regarding the spending of around 90 per cent of the entire EU budget. Poor
control over transfers from Brussels to national capitals are at the heart of
the problem.

Tory MEP Chris Heaton-Harris said an estimated Pounds 3.5billion was 'lost' each
year, equal to Britain's annual contribution. He added: 'Gordon Brown just signs
the cheque each year. He should be banging his fist on the table and demanding
to know where all this money is going.' Gawain Towler, spokesman for the UK
Independence Party, said: 'Time and time again, we hear about fraud from the
EU's Common Agricultural Policy budget. We are still not sure where this money
goes.

'At least the court of auditors, which is perhaps the only honest EU
institution, has the guts to say this.'

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
