
                               1 of 24 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 July 31, 2005

60 PER CENT OF BRITONS WANT VOTE ON MEMBERSHIP OF EU

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer Political Editor

SECTION: Scottish Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 391 words


SIX out of 10 Britons want a referendum on membership of the European Union and
half of us want Britain to withdraw from the community and negotiate a free
trade deal with our partners instead.

The latest findings, by YouGov online pollsters, come as Tony Blair continues to
face pressure to hold a referendum on the new EU constitution.

The Prime Minister scrapped plans to hold a national vote next spring after the
French and Dutch both voted No to the new treaty.

The latest poll - commissioned by the UK Independence Party - is the strongest
evidence yet of a rising tide of europhobia in Britain.

Ukip published the poll ahead of a campaign the eurosceptic party will launch
this autumn for a referendum on Britain's future in Europe with an online
national petition for people to sign up and register their views. Nigel Farage,
leader of the Ukip MEPs in Brussels, said: "These results are better than I
could ever have dreamed of.

It now shows there is a clear majority that wants free trade with their European
partners.

"This is something that should make the Conservative Party think. It's now
obvious we need to have a referendum on the whole of the EU."

Despite the French and Dutch No votes, more than half of the EU's 25 members
have now ratified the new constitution and efforts are continuing in Brussels
for further political integration in the face of growing scepticism.

A Ukip spokesman said: "How much longer can the Government drag the British
people in a direction they clearly have no wish to travel in?

These results show that half of the population not only wants to say 'No' to the
EU constitution, it wants to say 'No' to the entire European project and return
to the free trade agreement we thought we had signed in 1973.

"Surely Mr Blair has a duty not just to British voters but also to our European
neighbours to establish the democratic will of the British people on this issue
as rapidly as possible?"

Neil O'Brien, campaign director of the Vote No campaign said: "Unless the
European Union is reformed, it will continue to lose support and could even fall
apart."

Conservative Shadow Foreign Secretary Liam Fox MP said: "We have to stop running
away from the European debate. We cannot believe in a more flexible Europe and
an ever closer union at the same time."

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               2 of 24 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 July 31, 2005

FIFTY PER CENT WANT BRITAIN OUT OF EU; SIX OUT OF 10 CALL FOR A REFERENDUM AS
SCEPTICISM OVER EUROPE GROWS

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Julia Hartley-Brewer Political Editor

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 455 words


SIX out of 10 Britons want a referendum on membership of the European Union and
half of us want Britain to withdraw from the community and negotiate a free
trade deal with our partners instead.

The latest findings, by YouGov online pollsters, come as Tony Blair continues to
face pressure to hold a referendum on the new EU constitution.

The Prime Minister scrapped plans to hold a national vote next spring after the
French and Dutch both voted No to the new treaty.

The latest poll - commissioned by the UK Independence Party - is the strongest
evidence yet of a rising tide of europhobia in Britain.

Ukip published the poll ahead of a campaign the eurosceptic party will launch
this autumn for a referendum on Britain's future in Europe with an online
national petition for people to sign up and register their views.

Nigel Farage, leader of the Ukip MEPs in Brussels, said: "These results are
better than I could ever have dreamed of. It now shows there is a clear majority
that wants free trade with their European partners.

"This is something that should really make the Conservative party think. It's
now obvious that we need to have a referendum on the whole of the European
Union."

Despite the French and Dutch No votes, more than half of the EU's 25 members
have now ratified the new constitution and efforts are continuing in Brussels
for further political integration in the face of growing scepticism among
voters.

A Ukip spokesman said: "How much longer can the Government drag the British
people in a direction they clearly have no wish to travel in?

"These results show that half of the population not only wants to say 'No' to
the EU constitution, it wants to say 'No' to the entire European project and
return to the free trade agreement we thought we had signed in 1973. Mr Blair's
vision for our European future is about to crash on to the rocks of reality.

"Surely Mr Blair has a duty not just to British voters but also to our European
neighbours to establish the democratic will of the British people on this issue
as rapidly as possible?"

Neil O'Brien, campaign director of the Vote No campaign said: "Unless the
European Union is radically reformed, it will continue to lose support and could
even fall apart.

"Voters have had enough of EU politicians pretending everything is OK with the
Common Agricultural Policy or the staggering fraud and corruption that has been
uncovered."

Shadow Foreign Secretary Liam Fox MP said: "We have to stop running away from
the European debate. We cannot believe in a more flexible Europe and an ever
closer union at the same time."

A Downing Street spokeswoman said last night: "We do not comment on opinion
polls."

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               3 of 24 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 30, 2005

KILROY QUITS AS LEADER OF HIS OWN PARTY

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. , 11

LENGTH: 235 words


EURO MP Robert KilroySilk quit yesterday as leader of Veritas, the political
party he set up five months ago.

The former chat-show host admitted that the party had failed to make a
breakthrough at the general election in May or the Cheadle by-election this
month.

"We tried and failed, " Mr Kilroy-Silk, 62, said in a statement. "It is
impossible to have an effective political party without a central administration
and significant financial support. We have neither.

"In the circumstances I would be misleading the members of the party and the
public if I pretended that we could make progress.

"I'm not prepared to do that. We must face up to the truth. Obviously I'm sorry
for all the fine members of Veritas who worked so hard to change the face of
British politics but they can be consoled by the fact that the policies we
championed - and for which we were vilified - are now espoused by the Prime
Minister and the leader of the Opposition - and have become part of the
mainstream political debate.

"This is true of the EU, immigration, asylum, multi-culturalism and the flat
rate of income tax."

Patrick Eston will lead Veritas until a leadership election in the autumn.

Mr Kilroy-Silk is now being urged to resign as an MEP.

He was elected last year as a Ukip MEP for the East Midlands. Four other MEPs
for the area say their constituents are being "short-changed".

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               4 of 24 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 30, 2005, Saturday

LEADING ARTICLE: A POLITICIAN IN SEARCH OF A PARTY

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 177 words


Robert Kilroy Silk seems to be turning into the Groucho Marx of British politics
" he refuses to stay in any party that will have him as a member. First Labour,
then UKIP and now Veritas " Kilroy has walked out on them all.

Even being elected leader of Veritas did not stop Mr Silk from flouncing off
yesterday. Apparently he had no option but to depose himself. 'It is impossible
to have an effective political party without a central administration and
significant financial support,' he thundered. But would the Veritas membership
not be justified in pointing out that sorting this out is the responsibility of,
well, the leader?

But let us be fair. Kilroy detected a deeper malaise in Veritas. 'I would be
misleading the members of the party and the public if I pretended that we could
make progress.' In other words: give up Veritas, it's a lost cause. That prompts
us to wonder what part of the Veritas manifesto Kilroy was referring to.
Withdrawal from the EU? Perhaps Kilroy has finally begun to talk some sense
after all these years.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               5 of 24 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 30, 2005, Saturday

KILROY GIVES UP

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 72 words

HIGHLIGHT: QUITTING: Kilroy


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk has quit as leader of Veritas, the political party he
started.

The Euro MP, who faced a leadership challenge, said: "It was clear from the
general election that the electors are content with the old parties. We tried
and failed."

He launched Veritas in February after quitting UKIP following his leadership
bid.

It vowed to quit the EU, tighten immigration and "defend the British way of
life".

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                               6 of 24 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 25, 2005, Monday

Galileo project

SECTION: Features; 16

LENGTH: 201 words


From Mr Gerard Batten, MEP for London (UKIP) Sir, Your report (July 16) on the
new EU-backed Galileo satellite system concentrated on its banal applications
-dodging showers, locating shops and finding friends -but glossed over the
massive implications this system has.

The services currently on the table include plans for a compulsory pan European
road charging -with a spy in every car. This means we will be forced to pay for
the system while having the privilege of keeping the EU informed of our
whereabouts.

The project also involves a technology transfer as the EU signs deals with China
to use Galileo as a global satellite positioning service, in competition with
the US GPS system and in opposition to the wishes of the US Government. The main
purpose of this technology is military and strategic, and it has major
implications for Britain's future defence capabilities and our strategic
relationship with the US.

If Galileo is implemented, then Big Brother really will have arrived. I would
rather take my chances looking for my friends in the rain using more traditional
methods.

GERARD BATTEN (Member, Independence and Democracy Group)
gerard.batten@btinternet.com


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               7 of 24 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 July 24, 2005

OTV CHOICE

SECTION: Observer Magazine Pages, Pg. 86

LENGTH: 297 words


6.00 The Hoobs 8520515 6.25 The Hoobs (T) (R) 8509022 6.50 B4 3417954 7.15 Big
Brother's Little Brother (R) 87206 7.45 Big Brother 1630461 8.30 Everybody Loves
Raymond 60751 9.00 The OC 92022 10.00 Playing It Straight USA (T) 40022 11.00
Friends (T) (R) 1867 & 2596 12.00 News 71867 12.30 + The Drum (Zoltan Korda,
1938) (T) Drama starring Sabu, Raymond Massey. See films of the day. 91854848
2.15 + The Four Feathers (Zoltan Korda, 1939) Adventure starring John Clements,
June Duprez, Ralph Richardson. See films of the day. 95447848 4.25 Natural Born
Dealers (T) 1555157 5.25 Big Brother's Little Brother (T) 9234670

6.00 The Simpsons (T) (R) Lisa develops a crush. 645

6.30 Hollyoaks (T) Mrs Taylor stages a protest against the travellers. 225

7.00 News (T) 256683

7.55 The Political Slot United Kingdom Independence Party (T) Nigel Farage MEP,
of the UK Independence Party, discusses his belief that the nation is
dissatisfied with the European Union. 316935

8.00 Wife Swap (T) The series concludes as New Age mother Elizabeth, who eschews
cleaning and TV in favour of meditation and vegetarian food, leaves Los Angeles
and trades places for a fortnight with traditionally minded Paulette in New
Jersey. 2003

9.00 Dispatches Supermarket Secrets - Part One (T) Presented by Jane Moore. See
pick of the day. 2867

10.00 Big Brother (T) The contestants complete the weekly task. 360428

10.50 Al Murray's Showbiz Fights (T) The comedian provides a countdown of his 10
favourite celebrity fights. See screengrabs. 7312190

11.55 Waging The War Of The Worlds (T) (R) 220886

12.25 Big Brother Live 49395320 3.25 Big Brother Diary Room Uncut 14922368 3.55
Dispatches 5654523 4.50 Scrapheap Challenge USA 5307900 5.50 Treacle People
4286455


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               8 of 24 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 19, 2005, Tuesday

PANDORA

BYLINE: BY GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 807 words


Weatherman Fish set to sue over 'wife-swapping' claim

If you'll pardon the pun, there are storm clouds gathering over Michael Fish.
The mild-mannered TV weatherman is speaking to his lawyers " as they say " after
being accused of belonging to the wife-swapping circles of south-west London.

At the root of the trouble is Dropping Names, a memoir by the writer David
Benedictus, which alleges that during the 1980s, Fish 'was in The News of the
World as being part of a wife-swapping circle in East Twickenham.'

It's a shocking claim, but evidence to back it up is thin on the ground. Pandora
can find no record of any such NOTW article, and Benedictus now admits that he
'didn't check the details when writing the memoir.'

All of which left Fish yesterday considering how best to respond to the
allegation. 'There is no truth in it,' he told me. 'As to what I might do, I
will need time to seek advice and find out more information. I have never heard
of a David Benedictus ... I have just checked his website and I have never met
or seen him in my life.'

Benedictus reckons otherwise. As I noted last week, his book claims they
exchanged unneighbourly words when his dog, Magpie, 'squatted down on (Fish's)
nasty little rosebush, in the middle of his nasty little lawn.'

Pressed on the wife-swapping allegation, Benedictus tells me: 'I believe there
was an article claiming that, but I didn't check the references for my memoir.'

Myleene aims to be top of the Klass

Strangely, for a pioneer of reality TV, pop poppet Myleene Klass has more
upstairs than we previously believed.

To stave off boredom during her forthcoming UK tour, Klass, left, has enrolled
on an Open University degree course in " of all things " astronomy.

'I don't have time, with all the concerts and travel I have to do, to sit in a
university, so I am doing a correspondence course,' she tells me.

'I send in essays and work and they send it back. So my tour bus is loaded with
books, which isn't exactly very rock'n'roll.'

Maybe not, but Klass " speaking at Sunday's Veuve Cliquot polo Gold Cup " has an
impressive mentor.

'Professor Colin Pillinger, the Beagle man, is a friend and is giving me some
private tutorials,' she adds, excitedly.

'I can't wait. I'd like to be able to use this knowledge to go and make science
programmes for TV. Like Carol Vorderman, but for a younger generation.'

Saying 'non' to Sharon

Sharon Stone is much in evidence in London, where she's filming the sequel to
Basic Instinct. A host of stars " from Stan Collymore to Charlotte Rampling "
feature in the flick, but it isn't everyone's cup of tea.

The French supermodel Sarah Marshall was asked to play a cousin (and lover) of
the film's iconic heroine, right, but turned down the role in order to avoid
being typecast.

Says socialite Andy Wong, with whom Marshall attended Sunday's Veuve Cliquot
Gold Cup: 'Sarah didn't want to be thought of as a lesbian actress for the rest
of her career.'

Here's hoping. Back in France, Marshall's stormy relationship with ex- husband
Alexandre Anthony " a bisexual actor whom she divorced last month " is a
gossip-column staple.

Farewell, Ted

Biting her lip, Margaret Thatcher marked the passing of Sir Edward Heath with a
sombre press statement, dubbing her bete noir 'a political giant.'

Other foes were less dignified. The UK Independence Party carried two polls on
its website, headlined 'Heath kicks the bucket'. One asked: 'Was Heath a
traitor?' (84 per cent said yes). The other: 'Will you miss Heath?' (91 per cent
said no).

Beneath an obituary too nasty to bear repetition, UKIP's site flags a date for
the diary: the party's Woking branch is holding a dinner-dance to celebrate the
fact that 'Ted is brown bread'.

As to the former PM's funeral: 'I will attend his last goodbye wearing the
biggest UKIP rosette I can find,' writes one correspondent. 'I'll also stick one
atop a pole and wave it at the cortege.'

Lovely!

Bath-time at Buckingham Palace

The Queen champions British explorers, no matter what frontier they push.
Tomorrow, the comedian Tim FitzHigham will dine at Buckingham Palace, having "
God willing " rowed up the Thames in a bathtub.

Speaking from Margate yesterday, the intrepid FitzHigham said he's named the
Thomas Crapper bathtub Lilibet II, in Her Majesty's honour.

'Two years ago, I rowed a paper boat 160 miles down the Thames, and she wrote to
congratulate me,' he said. 'This time, I row all the way upriver to Tower
Bridge. It's in aid of Comic Relief, and the Queen's written again, to wish me
luck.'

There is but one problem. 'Tim is panicking, because the only suit he owns is
covered in horse manure,' adds his agent. 'I've told him not to bother cleaning
it, though: the Royals love a bit of horseshit.'

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               9 of 24 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             July 17, 2005, Sunday

Women's lib owes it all to the pill

BYLINE: David Smith, Economics Editor

SECTION: Home news; News; 5

LENGTH: 777 words


FORGET maternity rights and liberal divorce laws -it was the pill that set women
free.

The biggest study into the factors that most improved the lot of women since the
second world war has shown that birth control is the clear winner.

The pill and abortion laws produced the same economic benefits and feelings of
wellbeing for women as gaining a university degree. However, other key planks of
the feminist agenda such as enhanced rights for women at work have had a
negligible effect.

Changes in divorce laws, supposedly freeing women from being trapped in
unsatisfactory marriages, were even found to have had a harmful effect on them,
according to research carried out by the London School of Economics (LSE).

The study, to be published in the Royal Economic Society's Economic Journal
tomorrow, suggests the government's target of increasing paid maternity leave to
12 months by the end of this parliament is unlikely to help the cause of women.

According to the LSE's Silvia Pezzini, author of the paper, the beneficial
effects for women of enhanced maternity rights are offset by a reduction in
their "employability", because firms become more reluctant to take on women of
childbearing age. "The net effect on the welfare of women is negligible," she
said.

The study was based on data from more than 450,000 women in Britain and 11 other
European countries since 1975. Pezzini took responses to the questions on
women's "life satisfaction" and plotted them against changes in abortion laws,
the availability of contraception, maternity rights and divorce laws.

Giving women enhanced birth-control rights was shown to have encouraged them to
spend longer in education, making them more likely to be employed, raising their
income levels and improving their life satisfaction. The impact of putting women
in charge of their own birth control was the equivalent, in terms of its
advantages for women, of a substantial pay rise or moving to a higher
educational level.

The pill was introduced in Britain in 1961 for married women only, and became
the key medical advance behind the sexual freedoms of the 1960s, documented by
Shere Hite, the sexologist, in The Hite Report.

"Women who could take advantage of the policy -who were of childbearing age when
it was introduced -consistently registered an increase in welfare," says
Pezzini.

"At the same time, other women's rights have been less beneficial."

Bea Campbell, the feminist academic and writer, said the results confirmed what
she and others had always argued. "For as long as women have been bearing
children they have been fighting for control over how and when they have
children," she said. "It's one of the historic missions of women's politics and
the absence of choice is a disaster for women."

The results may not always be positive: Jennifer Aniston, recently split from
her husband and fellow actor Brad Pitt. One factor was allegedly her reluctance
to interrupt her screen career to have a baby.

Victoria Gillick, the anti-abortion campaigner who in 1986 lost a case demanding
doctors be prevented from prescribing the pill to under-16s without parents'
consent, said the study ignored wider questions.

"The study is probably right in the sense that women can earn more, they can
work more and if money is the sole criterion of your life they have probably
done a lot better out of it," she said. "But as far as women's moral conscience
is concerned, abortion has been the most deadly killer imaginable."

The study's more controversial finding, that giving women extra paid maternity
leave does them as much harm as good, was welcomed by Godfrey Bloom, the UK
Independence party MEP. He declared last year that "no self-respecting small
businessman with a brain in the right place would ever employ a lady of
childbearing age".

"It got me into hot water a year ago," he said. "There's no point giving women
lots of lovely rights if they don't have a job to start with. As always it is
the law of unintended consequences. More and more legislation comes out and it
nearly always has exactly the opposite of the intended effect."

But Unison, the trade union, which has pushed the government strongly on its
"work-life agenda", challenged the study's findings. "It's one of these
old-fashioned studies that looks at the benefits for the individual not the
wider society," a spokeswoman said.

"This research just shows that despite 30 years of legislation there is still
widespread discrimination against women in the workplace."

Additional reporting:

Ben Dowell Editorial, page 16 Francesco Guidicini/Francis Specker


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               10 of 24 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             July 17, 2005, Sunday

The work-life imbalance

SECTION: Features; News; 16

LENGTH: 342 words


A study by the London School of Economics confirms what many have long
suspected.

Women's livelihoods have been improved immeasurably in recent decades by the
contraceptive pill, giving them the ability to choose when to have children and
so boosting their employment prospects, incomes and life satisfaction. But other
aspects of the women's rights agenda, while undoubtedly well intentioned, have
been much less beneficial. More liberal divorce laws have been a two-edged
sword.

Workplace rights, such as enhanced maternity protection, may damage those they
are intended to help by undermining their employability. The law of unintended
consequences, it seems, applies.

All this is well known to some business people and was articulated intemperately
last year by Godfrey Bloom, member of the European parliament for the UK
Independence party, when he said "no self-respecting small businessman with a
brain in the right place would ever employ a lady of child-bearing age". The
British Chambers of Commerce, responding to government plans to increase paid
maternity leave to nine months, attacked the policy as "too much too soon",
warning that ministers were failing to listen to the concerns of business. But
the government, it seems, will go on ignoring such concerns. The intention is to
increase maternity leave further, to 12 months, by the end of the parliament.

What happens then? Maternity leave, and other aspects of the "work-life balance"
agenda, are burdening Britain's private sector at a time when it is ill equipped
to cope. Small wonder that the only boom in jobs is in the public sector, with
employment now up to 5.8m, a fifth of the workforce, and pay rising much faster
than the rest of the economy. The taxpayer, it seems, can pick up the bill. But
not for ever.

When the penny drops, it will become clear that the government has imposed
burdensome new rights without thinking about the long-term consequences. The
intended beneficiaries will not have been helped and neither will the rest of
us.


LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Leading Article

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               11 of 24 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 July 17, 2005

CROSS BENCHER; LEADER CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LEADER; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 74 words


OH DEAR. Things are not looking up for Labour MP turned-chat-show-host-turned-
Ukip-MEP-turned-party-leader Robert Kilroy-Silk. After his failed bid for Ukip's
leadership, Kilroy set up his own party, Veritas. Now some members are seeking
to dethrone Kilroy - from his own party. Ukip MEP Nigel Farage is amused: "No
one's seen Kilroy in Strasbourg in months. It's not surprising that now even his
own party want to get rid of him."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               12 of 24 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            July 16, 2005, Saturday

Cocaine at the seat of power in Brussels parliament

BYLINE: By David Rennie in Brussels

SECTION: News; CHESS Pg. 017

LENGTH: 285 words

A TELEVISION station has found traces of cocaine in 41 of 46 lavatories tested
at the European Parliament in Brussels.

Researchers for the German Sat-1 channel were sent to the palatial glass and
steel complex to take swab samples. They apparently found conclusive evidence of
drug use.

Parliamentary officials said they were not aware of any problem of cocaine abuse
among staff.

The Institute for Biomedical and Pharmaceutical Research in Nuremburg, which
analysed the swab samples, found that the amounts were sufficiently large that
they could not have been carried in unwittingly by people who had picked up
minute traces on their clothing, for example. They had to have been taken in by
officials, staff or visitors, experts said.

Prof Fritz Sorgel, of the laboratory, told Spiegel Online, a German internet
news site, that tests on almost any public building would reveal cocaine traces.

"Therefore I am not at all surprised that cocaine has been found in the European
Parliament," he said.

All the areas tested are open to visitors and the television station did not
accuse any MEPs of taking drugs.

In 2000 the channel investigated 28 lavatories at the new German parliament
buildings in Berlin and found traces of cocaine in 22. Shortly afterwards a
Sunday newspaper took 22 samples from lavatories in the House of Lords and the
House of Commons, four of which proved positive.

The claims of drug abuse at the European Parliament complex was greeted with
derision by Nigel Farage, an MEP for the United Kingdom Independence Party.

He said: "Given the stultifying boredom of committee work in Brussels, it is
hardly surprising. But it could explain the decisions they come up with."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               13 of 24 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             July 15, 2005, Friday

Lib Dems hold on to Cheadle after bitter battle

BYLINE: By Andrew Sparrow Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 013

LENGTH: 429 words

CHARLES Kennedy managed to avert a damaging setback early this morning when his
party held Cheadle in a by-election.

The Liberal Democrats' majority was cut from more than 4,000 at the general
election to 3,657.

But, despite fighting an aggressive campaign, the Conservatives failed to regain
the seat that they held until 2001. If they had won, it would have been their
first by-election gain since 1982.

Some Lib Dem MPs have been complaining in private about Mr Kennedy's conduct
since the general election, and defeat in Cheadle could have triggered a
leadership crisis.

The by-election was caused by the death of Patsy Calton, who died of cancer
three weeks after the general election. Mrs Calton won the seat with a majority
of just 33 in 2001 and the increase in her majority four years later may have
been partly explained by the fact that her constituents admired the way she was
battling against her illness.

Mark Hunter, the leader of Stockport council, was elected MP for Cheadle with
19,593 votes.

He defeated Stephen Day, a Tory who represented the constituency from 1987 to
2001.

Mr Kennedy visited the Cheshire seat five times during the campaign, which was
marked by several acrimonious spats between the Tories and the Lib Dems.

In a tactic normally associated with Lib Dem campaigning, the Tories attacked Mr
Hunter for not being "local", even though he lives not far from the
constituency. They also made other claims that were described as misleading,
with the result that, at one point, the Lib Dems threatened legal action.

The main complaint against Mr Kennedy in Lib Dem circles has been that the party
did not do as well as expected in the general election.

Although the Lib Dems won 22 per cent of the UK vote, their best performance
since the Liberal/SDP Alliance result in 1987, they only gained 11 extra MPs.
They won 16 seats, but lost five, all to the Tories.

Right-wing Lib Dems blame Mr Kennedy's high-profile anti-war stance and his
plans for a local income tax for the party's failure to make more of a
breakthrough against the Conservatives.

Result

M Hunter (LibDem)............19,593

Stephen Day (Con).............15,936

Martin Miller (Lab)................1,739

Leslie Leggett (Veritas)..........218

John Allman (Alliance for

Change).........................................81

Majority: 3,657

Turnout: 55.2 per cent

Swing: Con to LibDem: 0.63pc

General Election: P Calton (LibDem) 23,189; S Day (Con) 19,169; M Miller (Lab)
4,169;

Cavanagh (UKIP) 489; Chadfield (BNP) 421

Maj 4,020 Turnout 69.6 per cent

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               14 of 24 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             July 15, 2005, Friday

FROM UKIP TO TORY

BYLINE: BY Celia Walden

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 026

LENGTH: 111 words

A boon for the Euro-sceptic wing of the Conservative Party: onetime deputy
leader of the UK Independence Party, Craig Mackinlay, has left the party after
12 years to join the Tories.

Mackinlay - who has stood for UKIP at three general elections and three European
elections - told me yesterday that he hopes to pursue a parliamentary career
with his new party.

"The Conservative Party has become more realistic about the European question
and I'm looking forward to getting more involved," he said.

"I enjoyed my years with UKIP, but I now want to be part of a party which will
form a government in the future, rather than messing around on the fringes."

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               15 of 24 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 July 15, 2005

Controversial BNP campaign fails to win council seat

LENGTH: 343 words



HIGHLIGHT: Efforts by the far-right British National party to win a council seat
by using last week's London bombings in its campaign have backfired, after
candidate Labour Alok Agrawal won the Becontree seat in a landslide victory.


Efforts by the far-right British National party (BNP) to win a council seat by
using last week's London bombings in its campaign have backfired, after
candidate Labour Alok Agrawal won the Becontree seat in a landslide victory last
night.

Mr Agrawal, the owner of a local newsagents, held the Becontree ward seat in
Barking and Dagenham which was left vacant following the sudden death of Labour
councillor John Wainwright just five weeks ago.

Mr Agrawal secured 1,171 votes, with BNP candidate John Luisis trailing behind
on 378. Conservative candidate Anthony Chytry won just 283 votes, while the UK
Independence party netted 125.

The byelection was marred by controversy following the decision by the BNP to
publish an election leaflet showing an aerial photograph of the devastated
number 30 bus with the headline: Maybe now it's time to start listening to the
BNP.

Tensions also flared over the weekend and police were called after Labour
councillor Jeff Porter was reportedly hounded by a man distributing BNP
leaflets.

Mr Porter was a tube driver on the Circle line heading towards Edgware Road when
one of the four bombs exploded on a train heading in the opposite direction.

Matters came to a head last night after an exchange of words ended in a BNP
activist punching Labour election agent Val Rush in the chest after the results
were announced.

Speaking from her home earlier today, Ms Rush said the byelection result had
exceeded her expectations. "We were looking at an 800 vote win but to get this
result showed a positive response from the residents to that awful leaflet that
the BNP put out," she said. "I believed it would backfire and it did."

The far-right party had pinned its hopes on reclaiming a seat on the council
after BNP Daniel Kelly quit his seat just nine months after being elected in one
of the four byelections the party has contested in the borough in the last 18
months.

Labour won back the seat in Goresbrook ward left vacant by Mr Kelly last month
in a separate byelection, leaving the BNP without a single councillor in the
capital.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               16 of 24 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 July 14, 2005

On the election trail in Becontree

LENGTH: 1086 words



HIGHLIGHT: The BNP sparked controversy with its leaflet exploiting the attacks
on London. But what do the locals think? Jo Adetunji and Helène Mulholland went
to Barking and Dagenham to find out.


It's rare to find a British National party member agreeing with a Labour
opinion, but Peter Hudson is the first to admit that the local BNP's decision to
exploit last week's bombings in a bid to win a byelection was rather "stupid".

"There is no need to put that right in people's faces," says the minicab driver,
who lives and works in the sleepy ward of Becontree in Barking and Dagenham.
Though he will be voting for his party in tomorrow's council byelection, he
still thinks the BNP's campaigning material of choice "was a stupid decision".

The BNP received heavy censure yesterday after publishing an election leaflet
showing an aerial photograph of the number 30 bus devastated by the bomb that
killed at least 13 people, with the headline: "Maybe now it's time to start
listening to the BNP." The BNP is delivering the leaflet across the Becontree
ward where the party hopes to gain a council seat in tomorrow's byelection
following the death of Labour councillor John Wainwright.

London police confirmed it is investigating the leaflets following local
complaints. A police spokeswoman said of the BNP leaflet: "We do now have a copy
in our possession and are considering it. However, no offences have been
disclosed at this stage."

Tensions flared over the weekend and police were called to an incident involving
local Labour activist and councillor Jeff Porter, who was reportedly hounded by
a man distributing BNP leaflets.

Less than 48 hours before the incident took place, Mr Porter, who is also a
London Underground train operator, had been driving a tube to Edgware station as
one of last Thursday's bomb ripped through a train 10 feet away.

The BNP has not denied that local activists were heckling people over the
weekend, but claim that the party's wrath was saved for the anti-racist
organisation Searchlight, which is seeking to counter the BNP's campaign claims.

Essex is not the only area of concern. Yorkshire police are promising local
residents extra security after rumours that BNP supporters are touring the
Dewsbury area in West Yorkshire, to whip up local concern.

Though Labour has a strong majority in the Essex authority , it is aware that
its main threat tomorrow is not from the Tory or Ukip candidates, but from BNP
rival John Luisis.

The party is keen to get a foothold in the council after losing its only London
seat to Labour in another byelection held last month, after its BNP councillor
Daniel Kelly quit the seat he had won just nine months before.

Barking and Dagenham's Labour candidate Alok Agrawal and his election agent, Val
Rush, prepare for their last day of canvassing in the backroom of the
newsagent's shop he has run for 21 years, nestled between the Jasmine Court
Restaurant and the Chair Centre.

They have had 1,700 firm pledges of support after knocking on 2,300 doors, says
Ms Rush.

"We should win by a large majority", says Mr Agrawal. "A lot of people know me
personally and people are not that bad that they can go along with these silly
things."

Ms Rush, also a Labour councillor, is concerned at the coincidence of two
attacks on Mr Agrawal's shop over the past week by gangs of youths. "This is not
normal," she says.

SocietyGuardian.co.uk's efforts to reach Luisis failed. His election agent,
Richard Barn-Brook, admitted that the BNP candidate "is not very good at talking
to camera or radio" and has asked not to be interviewed until the election
tomorrow.

Mr Barn-Brook stands by the decision to use the controversial photo last week,
which he says was a local issue for Londoners.

He adds that leafleting has been the party's only activity since the atrocities
took place last week. "We stopped canvassing on Thursday out of respect for the
bombing victims."

Mr Barn-Brook insists that Mr Luisis has received support from African and Asian
residents upset by last week's tragedy who agree that lax immigration laws were
to blame.

Will Martindale, who has come to Essex from the Labour's London regional office
to help with canvassing, says the tone of the BNP campaign has changed since the
last byelection in June. "They were coming across as a more serious political
party", he says. "Now they are not. It is different BNP activists who seem to be
out on the streets. the people here seem to be far more aggressive".

Tory candidate Tony Chytry agrees that the leaflet could prove a political own
goal, but believes the wider message will have some resonance with the
electorate. The Conservatives have only a small presence in the council,
numbering three councillors in all.

"I don't think it's gone down well with the voters," says Mr Chytry. "A lot of
people are worried about uncontrolled immigration. Those people are normally
Labour voters and were planning to vote BNP as a protest vote... I haven't heard
people say they are voting BNP just because of racism."

Ukip candidate John Bolton was busy canvassing, but his agent, Terry Smith,
paused to confirm that the "ghoulish" leaflet had been badly received by the
electorate.

"All they're going after is their hardcore supporters", says Mr Smith. He notes
that the BNP campaign really kicked off after Thursday. "Before that it was very
low key"

Out on the streets of Becontree, few in a ward populated by around 8,000
residents are even aware that their vote is being sought tomorrow.

Over at Cafe Corner just across from Mr Agrawal's shop, Sharon Broomfield
recounts how she only became aware of the election in her backyard while
watching the news last night and seeing her newsagent on the telly. "I hadn't
heard about it until now," she says.

She isn't alone. A straw poll of 16 people found not one had heard that a ward
seat was being fought.

Mr McKillop, a retired seaman who lives in an elderly people's residence close
by, is upset that no one has bothered to leaflet his block. He admits he
wouldn't rule out giving the BNP vote, but this time it looks unlikely. "There
is something about the BNP," he says. "They get their teeth into something and
they take a bite out of it, and then they will do nothing. They are full of
promises, like every party. That is why I just look at what promises they intend
to break".

Ronald Davies, a retired lorry driver who has lived in area for 30 years, is a
Labour supporter and has every intention of casting his vote.

"This is a nice area with a mixed community. Overall it's quite good. We've had
a bit of trouble here but not much," he says. "People have been coming into the
area, they have young families. At the end of the day we've all got to live
together."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               17 of 24 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 July 13, 2005

KILROY FACING JOB CHALLENGE

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 47 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk is facing the boot as leader of his OWN political party.

The former chat show host, 62, set up Veritas after failing to become leader of
the UK Independence Party.

But now fellow member Ken Wharton, 47, wants to take on Mr Kilroy-Silk for the
top job.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                               18 of 24 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 July 13, 2005

Tube driver condemns BNP bombing leaflet

LENGTH: 571 words



HIGHLIGHT: A train operator caught up in last week's London bombings has
condemned the British National Party for publishing a byelection leaflet that
exploits images of last Thursday's bombings.


A train operator caught up in last week's London bombings has condemned the
British National Party for publishing a byelection leaflet that exploits images
of last Thursday's bombings.

Jeff Porter, a councillor for Barking and Dagenham council and a London
Underground train driver, described his "outrage" at the decision of the BNP to
link the attacks to Britain's multiculturalism.

The leaflet produced for tomorrow's council byelection in Barking, east London,
in which the BNP hopes to gain a seat, shows an aerial photograph of the number
30 bus devastated by the explosion that killed at least 13 people. The headline
is: "Maybe now it's time to start listening to the BNP."

Mr Porter, who was driving a tube to Edgware station when a bomb exploded on a
train just 10 feet away going in the other direction, said: "I do not think
there are words to describe how disgusting this is. It is outrageous. At a time
where all communities and faiths have been killed and injured; to try and
exploit that. There are no words."

The election, being held right in the heart of the Barking and Dagenham borough
in Becontree ward, has been marred by tensions since last week's bombings.

The BNP is contesting the seat left vacant after the sudden death of Labour
councillor John Wainwright five weeks ago.

Trouble brewed over the weekend after Mr Porter and his wife suffered verbal
abuse from a man handing out the BNP pamphlet.

Mr Porter has continued to canvas residents this week in support of the Labour
candidate, Alok Agrawal, though he admitted the weekend incident left him and
his wife frightened for their safety. "I was terrified," he said.

Mr Porter will be cutting short his last day of canvassing today to undergo
counselling following the Edgware tube bombing last week.

Labour-run Barking and Dagenham council also confirmed that an inflammatory
leaflet carrying a fake council logo and branding Muslims as "murderers" had
been distributed in the area. It remains unclear who is responsible.

Val Rush, also a Labour councillor and the election agent for Mr Agrawal, said
other political parties putting up candidates were focusing on local issues
alone.

"All the residents we have spoken to are absolutely horrified that the BNP are
using pictures of such a tragedy on their leaflet in a local byelection
campaign," she said.

The BNP defended its decision to exploit last week's bombings, insisting there
was a clear link between the atrocities and people's local concerns. "Why did we
use it," spokesman Dr Phil Edwards said. "Well why not?"

Dr Edwards denied that any BNP activist had been abusive to other political
groups canvassing in the area, though he admitted his colleagues heckled members
of Searchlight, the anti-racist organisation.

Local police confirmed they were sent to a disturbance over the weekend. "Police
attended immediately but there were no problems on arrival and no crimes have
subsequently been reported to us," a police spokeswoman said.

The BNP has stood in four of the seven byelections held in the borough in the
last 18 months.

The party gained one council seat last September. But this was shortlived after
the elected councillor, Daniel Kelley, resigned just nine months later.

The seat was regained by Labour's Warren Northover, removing the BNP's only
representation in the capital.

Turnout in tomorrow's byelection is expected to be around 30%.

The Conservatives and Ukip are also fielding candidates.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               19 of 24 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             July 10, 2005, Sunday

AN OFFICER AND A GENTLEMAN;
 HE HAS NEVER WORN JEANS. HE TAKES A VIEW ABOUT FEMALE INTERVIEWERS.

BYLINE: SHOLTO BYRNES

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 4,6,7

LENGTH: 2270 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Starch quality: Fox in, from top, 'The Day of the Jackal' (1973), 'Edward and
Mrs Simpson' (1978) and 'Stage Beauty' (2004), and in hospital in 1978 with his
family SUNDAY MIRROR; REX FEATURES; HULTON ARCHIVE/CHRIS MOORHOUSE; Harrow boy:
Edward Fox can't abide a tie at half-mast, and finds young people in denim
'repulsive' ANDY PARADISE


'We've become like a sprouting cabbage,' says Edward Fox, cupping his hands
upwards as if gently stroking a specimen. 'There's all of the leaves up here,
and then the knobbly bits on a long stem. And we've done what cabbages do.' Gone
off? 'Yes. Gone orff.'

Fox is concluding his assessment of the state of Britain today. He may be 68,
but apart from the deep valleys and crevices in his stern, craggy face, there is
no suggestion that he has 'gone orff'. Impeccably dressed as ever " 'there's
nothing worse than a tie at half-mast', he says " his manners are exquisite, his
craft as an actor still much in demand, and his opinions tart and forthright.

On female interviewers, for instance: 'It's always the ladies,' he says, ' who
have the prying questions. They're rather different people.' More ambitious?
'They're stupid, too. Small minds, petty minds, inconsequential minds. Really,'
he adds, in that instantly recognisable drawl, 'it would be better if they just
slept for the whole day.'

We are sitting by the bar of the Halkin Hotel just off Hyde Park Corner,
ostensibly here to talk about Shaw's You Never Can Tell, in which Fox is playing
the part of William the waiter in this year's Peter Hall season in Bath. But Fox
is more interested in musing broadly on the theatre, on art, and on why the old
values of hierarchy and order were better.

We touch briefly on You Never Can Tell, which is in repertory with Waiting For
Godot. 'Is it?' says Fox. 'I didn't know. They are totally different plays.' He
looks slightly bewildered that anyone should have thought to pair the two. Is he
a fan of Beckett? 'Not at all,' he replies with satisfaction. 'When I saw Nicol
Williamson playing Astrogon at the Royal Court, it suddenly came alive for me.
But I don't think I necessarily want to see Waiting For Godot again.'I'm sure
Beckett is great, but rather like Webern, I just don't understand it.'

Continuing on the Second Viennese School of composers, Berg's opera Wozzeck
surfaces briefly in our conversation, only to be sunk by a definitive put-down
from Fox. 'Yes, Berg. Alban Berg,' he says. 'Boring as hell.'

Shaw, on the other hand, or Wilde, or Shakespeare; that's much more Fox's thing.
'I would always want to see Man and Superman again,' he says, 'and I would
always want to see The Importance of Being Earnest again. And that's rather what
one feels about playwrighting. There are so many good plays. You can just cut
the rest. Scrub 'em.'

Fox is so amiable and has such charm that he could make the most reactionary of
comments, and one could not hold it against him. That, of course, is part of
what makes him so memorable an actor. In one of his two most famous roles, as
the amoral assassin in The Day of the Jackal, that amiability was concealed
beneath an ice-cold exterior. Neither was it particularly evident in the other
drama which will forever be associated with him, television's Edward and Mrs
Simpson. Those two parts confirmed him as first choice whenever casting
directors required an overly formal, repressed, upper-class Englishman. But he
is also capable of conveying tremendous warmth, as anyone who saw The Old Master
at the Comedy Theatre in London last year would confirm.

This combination may go some way to explaining why Fox enjoys a level of fame
that his career does not strictly justify. There have been great performances on
stage, as Harold Macmillan in A Letter of Resignation, in The Browning Version
and The Winslow Boy. But real fame is not won on the stage any more. Television
and film confer that dubious prize, and not for the roles in which we have seen
Fox over the last few years " as General Limtoc in 1996's Gulliver's Travels, or
Sir Edward Hyde in Richard Eyre's recent Stage Beauty.

The Day of the Jackal was a long time ago, in 1973. Still further back was his
breakthrough role as the cuckolded peer in Joseph Losey's film of The
Go-Between, before which Fox had spent the years after RADA in repertory and
television. He could have gone to Hollywood after The Day of the Jackal. But Fox
was not enthused by the idea of 'silly parts with guns in your hand', and
returned to the theatre.

These lesser film roles keep Fox visible, and no doubt help keep up his home in
Little Venice, where he lives with his second wife, the actress Joanna David,
and their son Freddy. (His daughter, Emilia, is also an actress, and shortly to
marry Richard Harris's son, Jared.) But no, that's not enough. There's something
more to Fox; an unmistakable and welcome whiff of another era that has led him
to be considered a sort of National Treasure.

There's a quality that he seems to embody which allows us to look back on
Britain's past and forget the liberal embarrassment we feel about empire,
slavery and the unfortunate tendency of our 19th-century forebears to go round
conquering people. There must have been something all right about that time, we
say to ourselves, there's a saving grace to that period when half the globe was
coloured British imperial red " if it produced chaps like Edward Fox.

And Fox is most definitely a chap. Not a mere man, and never, ever a bloke. He
is, as a Yes, Prime Minister script once put it, 'the kind of chap the chaps can
trust'. His shirts are always crisp (he has been known to re-iron shirts his
housekeeper has already ironed), he has never worn a pair of jeans in his life,
and has declared that 'being a gentleman is the number one priority'. Whatever
he says " and it's easy to get him to come out with comments that would give the
PC brigade a fit " there remains an old-fashioned, officer-class decency about
him. We may not agree with his views, but we're still somehow comforted by the
fact that he is around to air them.

'Audiences love me,' he agrees. 'Jolly lucky, that. Not many people have that in
their lives.' What does he think they are drawn to? 'This ghastly word
'respect',' he says. 'I think they have a sort of respectfulness for what they
think I represent. They don't want to quibble with it. People are being pushed
and shoved about, and that's probably rather disquieting.'

He prefers the gentler pace he remembers from his childhood in Cuckfield,
Sussex, where he grew up with his younger brothers Willie (the actor James Fox)
and Robert, now a producer. Their father Robin was a theatrical agent, and their
mother, Angela, was the daughter Noel Coward urged Mrs Worthington not to put on
the stage.

'People are better off now,' he says, 'but there was more of a sense of
familialness in the country then than there is today. If only the Conservative
governments had acted benevolently to the least fortunate masses, which was in a
way what Macmillan tried to do, I think we'd be better off than we are today.'

In the past he has expressed a preference for 19th-century life. 'I just feel
more kinship with the way things were then,' he says. 'Modern manners are a
funny, hurried thing.' He'd prefer more formality? 'Oh yes. I like hierarchy,
you see, and hierarchy has broken down.' When he was doing his National Service,
Fox was kicked out of the Coldstream Guards, so the story goes, for throwing his
company commander into a lake. 'I disliked him and I think he disliked me
enormously. I cannot remember trying to chuck him in the lake, but I suppose if
thought is action I would certainly have wanted to.'

That didn't show much respect for hierarchy, I say to Fox. 'It would have been
wrong,' he admits, 'and I thought then and still think now that it would have
been right for me to be disgraced and demoted for having done such a thing. I'm
very surprised that I became an officer at all. To be punished according to
hierarchical requirement I would not have thought wrong in my case. Indeed, that
was one of the army's great architectural structures.'

It's surprising then, I tell him, that he didn't enjoy Harrow. 'Well, I was a
boy then, and it had a sort of Victorian coldness about it. But it may have been
that I missed the point entirely. My friends from Harrow love it. They never
stop going back, singing songs and going to dinners, writing each other letters.
Actually,' he adds, recalling what it was he didn't like, 'the hierarchy at
school was based on fear. That's unproductive, and repressive to the spirit.'

Fox's ideal of hierarchy is one based on the 'natural' order of things in which
people are content with their station in life. It ties in with his definition of
Britishness. 'It's people who are happy with their lot, where you can meet
anybody from anywhere and say 'hullo, how are you, everything all right?' or
whatever. Behind that people have got to have reasons to feel glad for their own
existences, have enough to eat, pleasant surroundings to live in, to know that
people will treat them civilly.'

This reverence for the old Britain led to him becoming one of the most prominent
members of Sir Jimmy Goldsmith's Referendum Party, although he is not, as is
often reported, involved in UKIP. 'No, it was incorrect that I was batting for
them,' he says. 'I was only ever really a part of Jimmy's thing, because I liked
him so much and agreed with his attitudes. In the 1975 referendum the people
were gulled into believing that the Treaty of Rome was just an improved
commercial accommodation within the European countries. But as we know, that
wasn't what it was about. It was a pure dissembling lie.'

The dissembling continues, thinks Fox, not least on the part of the Prime
Minister. 'The cleverest thing Blair has done is put on this ghastly smile,' he
says. 'It's very clever. It's Iago, definitely. In one of his soliloquies he
says 'one may smile and smile, and be a villain'. Plus ca change.'

Later, I look it up. Fox has quoted Hamlet talking about his uncle Claudius.
Given Fox's opposition to the Iraq war, though, he may consider Iago's actual
words even more appropriate: 'I can smile, and murder while I smile'. Perhaps
the confusion occurred because he has played both Iago and Hamlet, and is
extremely fond of Shakespeare, even if his views of the bard's characters are
rather unorthodox. Of Hamlet, for instance, he once said: 'If that bloody ghost
hadn't appeared, and he hadn't any qualms about his mother's hasty marriage, he
would probably have been just a fine soldier- general.'

'All you need to know about life you'll find in Shakespeare,' he says. 'You only
have to open any play and within half a page he's told you an awful lot of
things. Quite extraordinary.' Iago, it turns out, is one of his favourite roles.
'It's a wonderful part,' he says. 'There are many Iagos about, and he makes the
audience laugh because they recognise the Iago in themselves. Or the person
they'd like to be " a bit smarter than everybody else.' I mention Frank Finlay's
performance in Laurence Olivier's film of Othello. 'Frank played it, yes,' he
recalls. 'Larry was in his sixties then. A great performance.'

Are there any Shakespeare roles he'd particularly like to play? 'You don't think
like that unless you're going to mount your own production. Otherwise it may
happen, or it may not. Funnily enough,' he says, 'I can get just as much
enjoyment doing his speeches in the bath.'

What does he think of the acting profession today? 'Television has persuaded the
young, who feel that television and film are the things to go for, that fame and
money are part of it. It's nothing to do with the job, really, because the
camera will catch a pretty eyebrow or whatever.' Theatre, according to Fox, is
the craft's home. 'I was very lucky when I started out in repertory,' he says,
'because there was the chance to be really bad, and to learn how really bad you
could be as an actor. To make a fool of ourselves. Rex [Harrison] said that the
way to learn to act was to play at the end of a pier, in front of a very aged
audience, on a hot summer afternoon; and if you could keep them amused then you
were learning how to entertain.'

Fox is not interested in an elite theatre that only a few can appreciate. 'It
should be a pleasure,' he says of a visit to a play. 'It should be rather like a
jolly good jacket potato " cheap, always there, and very nourishing.' Young
audiences, he thinks, need to be lured away from television (which he does not
watch) and into theatres. 'It's a civilising influence, the theatre,' he says.
'Television has implanted a push-button mentality, which is really, at bottom, a
sign of boredom and apathy.'

We're beginning to head back into territory which elicits Fox's more caustic
comments. How congenial, I wonder, does he find these young people he's keen to
bring into the theatre. I ask him his opinion of contemporary youth fashion.
'Oh, it's ghastly.' What does he think when he sees jean- clad young people
walking through Little Venice? 'They're all repulsive.'

Interviewers often take such lines at face value, and present Fox as a bit of a
monster. But it would be wrong to do so, for his more outspoken moments are
generally informed by a strong sense of mischief. 'Yes, people probably do take
me too literally,' he says. 'But I don't mind people disliking one. I don't see
any reason why they should like one necessarily.'

Not many people do dislike Edward Fox, and if they do so through being too
po-faced to enjoy his teasing crabbiness, he would probably be the last to care.
As he leaves, his parting words are about the country's similarity to the
sprouting cabbage.

Then he turns, winks, and is off. Or, as he would say, 'orff'. m

'You Never Can Tell': Theatre Royal, Bath (01225 448844) to 3 September

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               20 of 24 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             July 10, 2005, Sunday

EU WASTERS BLOW £65K ON 15 BIKES!;
 BRUSSELS RED TAPE INFLATES TAXPAYER BILL

BYLINE: BY NIGEL NELSON

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 265 words

HIGHLIGHT: BIKER: Political power


BUNGLERS at the EU have run up an amazing £65,000 bill on just FIFTEEN bicycles.

Their plan was to start replacing Euro MPs' chauffeur driven, gas guzzling
limousines with eco-friendly bikes to get around Brussels.

But bureaucratic red tape has inflated the price of each £285 bicycle to £4,333.

First the pen-pushers set up TWO committee meetings to agree the scheme. Then
they paid translators to convert the documents into TWENTY languages.

Next they hired SECURITY staff to guard the bikes. Then they drew up two pages
of RULES for using the bikes. Finally they insisted on a raft of form-filling
and record-keeping to make sure everyone OBEYED.

UKIP MEP Nigel Farage said: "This is politically correct nonsense that is
costing the taxpayer a fortune."

And a top Eurocrat said: "MEPs are climbing off the gravy train and on to gravy
bikes." The bikes were bought by the Directorate for Infrastructure and
Logistics. Its 12 rules, a model of EU gobbledygook, include:

Article 3: "The Security Service shall assign a security guard to be in charge
of the bicycles."

Article 4: "Once formalities have been completed, the security guard shall hand
to the user the key required to release the bicycle."

Article 11: "In the event of the user repeatedly breaching rules, the Bicycles
Service may suspend him or her, for an appropriate period, from his or her
entitlement to use the bicycles provided by the Bicycles Service."

A European Parliament spokesman insisted: "It's an environmentally friendly
initiative and we save money by not using cars."

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                               21 of 24 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 5, 2005, Tuesday

Don't shoot Charlie Kennedy

BYLINE: Anthony Howard

SECTION: Features; Times2; 2

LENGTH: 786 words


IT IS BEGINNING to look as if it is payback time so far as the Liberal Democrats
are concerned. Having enjoyed a fairly soft ride since Paddy Ashdown became the
first leader of the new amalgamated party in 1988, the Lib Dems, even though
holding their highest number of seats in the Commons for 60 years, have suddenly
started to look vulnerable. The message from the delayed general election
contest in South Staffordshire last month was hardly encouraging -the Lib Dem
candidate scraping in third with only some 800 more votes than his UKIP rival. A
lot, therefore, is going to ride on the result of the Cheadle by-election due in
ten days' time.

If anything should go wrong there -and though at the May general election the
Lib Dems had a majority of 4,020, it was a mere 33 at the one before that in
2001 - mutiny could easily break out in the ranks of the parliamentary party.
The omens, again, do not look wholly propitious, Patsy Calton, who died within
four weeks of the general election, had already fought the seat twice before
prevailing in 2001; her replacement, although possessing the dubious advantage
of being leader of a local council, will be facing the same Conservative and
Labour opponents as she did just eight weeks ago.

The nearest parallel I can think of for this first by-election of the new
Parliament is also not encouraging. As if his other post-defeat troubles were
not enough, Hugh Gaitskell in 1960 had the misfortune to have to defend the most
vulnerable Labour majority in the country at Brighouse and Spenborough in the
first by- election of that Parliament. Overnight, a fragile Labour majority of
47 was turned in to a scarcely more solid Tory one of 666.

I do not forecast that the same thing will happen at Cheadle on July 14 (for one
thing, the Liberal margin, at least last time around, was larger). But Cheadle
has traditionally been a Tory seat: lying alongside the Liberal constituency of
Hazel Grove, it fell into the Lib Dem column only for the second time in its
history in 2001. Moreover, when Calton first set out on her quest for victory 13
years ago in 1992, she got a mere 30 per cent of the total vote. It is by no
means beyond the bounds of possibility, therefore, that the voters here could
revert to their original Tory allegiance.

If they were to do so, the consequences for the Lib Dems would be catastrophic.

There is already an undertow of resentment and unease within the parliamentary
party, reflected in the eviction of Matthew Taylor by a relative newcomer for
the party chairmanship only a month ago. Last week's meeting of Lib Dem MPs was,
by all accounts, a far from amiable occasion: Charles Kennedy went so far as to
issue a threat that, if he ever established the identity of any frontbenchers
seeking to undermine his position, he would have no hesitation in sacking them.

It was an uncharacteristically tough posture for the notoriously "laid-back"
leader to adopt, but then Kennedy must know that the sands of time are running
against him. True, he is only 45 and has not yet been leader for six years, but
the declaration of their prospective retirements by both Tony Blair and Michael
Howard inevitably means that at the next election the Lib Dem leader will be the
most antique piece of furniture left on the political stage (it is not, I
suspect, a coincidence that the question of who will succeed him has recently
become part of the small change of gossip at Westminster).

It is difficult, though, to envisage the crimes on which Kennedy can plausibly
be arraigned. All right, the Lib Dems did not make the breakthrough they had
hoped for at the last election -but they scarcely did disastrously, putting up
their total of MPs by ten and increasing their popular vote in the country by
more than a million. Why then, do party members go on moaning in the way that
they do? One answer must be that the dissatisfied tendency has always formed
part of the fibre of British Liberalism: not for nothing was the party of
Gladstone, Asquith and Lloyd George born of the tradition of Dissent.

But the days have long gone since the party used to be the embodiment of the
"Nonconformist conscience" (the proof of that is that it should be led today by
a Roman Catholic). Probably, Kennedy will find himself facing some sort of
inquest at the party conference at Blackpool in September. But there is really
no reason why it should descend into a drumhead court-martial, unless a grim
result from Cheadle activates the panic button. Short of that, my advice to the
Lib Dems is that they could do worse than ponder the counsel immortalised by
Oscar Wilde: "Please don't shoot the pianist. He is doing his best."


LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               22 of 24 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                  July 3, 2005

Labour MEPs in revolt over propaganda for the euro

BYLINE: JONATHAN OLIVER

SECTION: FB_04; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 262 words


TONY BLAIR last night faced a rebellion from within his own ranks over his plans
to 'reform' Europe. As the Prime Minister took over the presidency of the
European Union, Labour MEPs were supporting a new campaign to scrap the pound.

This week they are poised to back proposals to double the Pounds 10million
budget earmarked for promoting the euro even though the PM has ruled out
ditching the pound in the foreseeable future.

The controversial scheme will embarrass Mr Blair, who has launched his six-month
presidency with a promise to tame outofcontrol spending. The move is aimed at
member states that have yet to sign up to the currency.

It is being launched despite the recent 'No' votes against the EU constitution
in France and the Netherlands, which have effectively halted any hopes of
further European integration.

The extra money will be spent on booklets, newsletters and posters promoting the
common currency.

Labour MEP Peter Skinner, who is backing the plan, said: 'After our recent
debate on the UK rebate, we would be silly to turn down money that has been
allocated. We are ensuring that the UK has its share of every pot of cash
available.'

But John Whittaker, a senior economics lecturer from Lancaster University and a
UKIP MEP, said: 'The assumption is that if only we had more "information", we
would all come to love the euro.

This is just the sort of arrogant, head-in-the-sand attitude that we have come
to expect from the EU. The only thing to tell about the euro is that it carries
economic dangers.'

END

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               23 of 24 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             July 01, 2005, Friday

Patents harm software

SECTION: Features; Letters to the Editor Pg. 025

LENGTH: 170 words

SIR - The "Computer-Implemented Inventions Directive" (CIID) is an attempt, by
the Council and Commission of the EU, to engulf software in the patent-system.
It would expose software-producers to crippling claims from predatory
patent-holders and so paralyse all but a few big players in the field.

Next week, the European Parliament will vote on the CIID and approve it, reject
it, or, by amendments, knock the stuffing out of it. The result will be close,
because leading members of two large parliamentary groups, the European People's
Party (to which British Tories are allied) and the Alliance of Liberal Democrats
for Europe, will support it, while the Independence and Democracy Group (which
includes UKIP), the Greens, and Socialists will vote against.

In 2002, seeing the CIID as a stitch-up on behalf of big corporations, the
European Parliament threw out the proposal. Not letting the Parliament have the
last word, the Council and Commission reintroduced the proposals.

Tom Wise MEP (UKIP)

Brussels

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               24 of 24 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             July 01, 2005, Friday

Ferrari secrets

BYLINE: By Jonathan Isaby

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 025

LENGTH: 227 words

Proof - as if it were needed - that memorabilia associated with Formula 1
champion Michael Schumacher is hot property.

For I hear that car which the German drove to victory in the first five races of
last year has been sold for a stonking pounds 1.8 million.

"Sotheby's held a Ferrari auction in Maranello this week and it was the star
lot," says my man in the pit lane.

"Schumacher drove it to victory in the Australian, Malaysian, Bahrain, Imola and
Spanish Grand Prix."

But despite forking out so handsomely for the car, the buyer will not be allowed
to drive it away.

"It's all about protecting Ferrari's industrial and technological secrets," adds
my source.

"Only in January 2006 will the new owner get his hands on it: until then he'll
only be allowed to drive it on the track at Maranello." From today until the end
of the year, the UK holds the rotating presidency of the European Union. And
Nigel Farage - the UKIP MEP and leader of the anti-EU faction in the European
Parliament - has been looking forward to it for months.

"I think it's going to be very interesting," he tells me.

"I normally throw all invitations from the EU Presidency straight in the bin,
but now Blair is president I'll be attending everything. His 'third way' in
Europe will be in a total mess by the end of the six months and I want to be
there to witness it."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited
