
                                1 of 4 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 19, 2003, Tuesday

John Prescott and the party faithful

SECTION: Features; 17

LENGTH: 188 words


From Mr Mark Croucher Sir, John Prescott seems to have a rather short memory
when he tells the Prime Minister to pay more attention to the concerns of
ordinary Labour voters and place less reliance on spin.

Mr Prescott's well spun plans for 200,000 new homes in the South East (reports,
July 31; see also letters, August 5 and 11) ignore the wishes of several hundred
thousand Labour supporters who will find their semi-rural surroundings
transformed into heavily developed urban areas in the course of a dozen years.
And if that is not bad enough, he must be positively dizzy from all the spinning
involved in attempting to sell the benefits of regional government to an
increasingly sceptical Labour membership, especially as it involves having an
elected member for every 320,000 people (in the South East) in an attempt to
"bring decision making closer to the people" (White Paper, Your region, your
choice).

What is required is not just less spin, but less hypocrisy.

Yours faithfully, MARK CROUCHER (Local government spokesman), UK Independence
Party, 2 Queen Anne's Gate, SW1H 9AA.

August 14.


LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                                2 of 4 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            August 17, 2003, Sunday

BOXING: MALONEY VOTES FOR HARD WORK

BYLINE: FRANK WIECHULA

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 227 words

HIGHLIGHT: FRANK MALONEY


FRANK MALONEY insists he can keep guiding his boxers to glory in the ring - AND
win the race to become London's next mayor.

The colourful south Londoner will keep up his hefty workload as he steps up his
campaign to oust Ken Livingstone next June.

Maloney will soon take his political talk show on the road as a candidate for
the UK Independence Party but he has no plans to slow down his boxing
activities.

He will take unbeaten WBU title holders Wayne Elcock (middleweight) and Kevin
Lear (super-featherweight) to a training camp in Portugal before their fights in
Portsmouth on October 11.

The same month unbeaten British lightweight king Graham Earl battles for the WBO
world title, while Maloney also manages unbeaten WBU light-heavy holder Tony
Oakey and former world champ Scott Harrison.

He is also working hard with Frank Warren's Sports Network to get Harrison a
rematch against WBO victor Manuel Medina.

Family man Maloney, 50, thrives on the pressure. He said: "Boxing is like
politics. It's making the right decisions at the right time, negotiating with
people and having everything organised.

"Scott's defeat was a major setback but I've had them before. I keep bouncing
back.

"I couldn't imagine a nice easy life. I'd just roll up in a corner and wither
away. Boxing and politics is a marriage made in heaven."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                                3 of 4 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           August 13, 2003, Wednesday

Hucknall's pounds 25,000 gift to Labour

BYLINE: By George Jones and Benedict Brogan

SECTION: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 481 words

MICK Hucknall, the pop singer, gave pounds 25,000 to the Labour Party earlier
this year, according to the latest register of donations to political parties.

His donation helped Labour to record a total of pounds 3.1 million in the second
quarter of this year - nearly twice the pounds 1.7 million received by the
Conservative Party.

Hucknall shared a platform with Tony Blair as Labour campaigned before the 1997
general election. Subsequently he advised the Government as part of a panel
looking into the music industry. In March, he told the music magazine Q that he
had an ambition to sit in the House of Lords and was "friendly with Tony".

Other major individual donations to Labour included Sir David Garrard, the
chairman of the Minerva property group, who gave pounds 200,000. He was knighted
in the New Year Honours for his charity work.

Sir Sigmund Sternberg, a businessman with a lifelong involvement in the Labour
Party, gave pounds 16,677. He was a founder of the Labour Finance and Industry
Group. Charles Peel, the chairman of the City stockbrokers Peel Hunt, and Peter
Thompson, the chairman of the Hong Kong Port Board, each gave pounds 100,000.

The public sector union, Unison, was the biggest single trade union donor to
Labour, giving pounds 494,597. Other unions have threatened to withhold
donations in protest at the Government's policies on public service reform.

Overall, donations to all parties in April-June 2003 were more than double those
in the same period last year - pounds 6,416,261, compared with pounds 3,111,542
in 2002 - probably because of the important set of elections to English
councils, the Scottish Parliament and Welsh Assembly in May. The Liberal
Democrats received pounds 807,588.

The far-Right British National Party, which has recently won council seats in
England, received pounds 2,500, while the anti-EU UK Independence Party
attracted pounds 2,000.

The Electoral Commission, which publishes the register of donations, rebuked
Labour for late reporting. It said 12 sums totalling pounds 130,339.75 that
should have been reported in previous quarters had been included in the latest
returns.

The commission is seeking a meeting with Jimmy Elsby, the Labour Party
treasurer, to demand an explanation. Under legislation introduced by Labour,
parties must inform the commission each quarter about any donations worth more
than pounds 5,000 to national offices or pounds 1,000 to local branches.

Failure to register gifts on time is a criminal offence that can lead to a
prison sentence of up to one year and an unlimited fine for the treasurer.

A Labour Party spokesman said: "This situation arose out of simple human error,
which we were quick to put right."

Sir Christopher Gent, the former chairman of Vodafone, gave the Conservatives
pounds 10,000. He was among 14 individuals who gave the party similar amounts.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                                4 of 4 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 11, 2003, Monday

June is the cruellest month for Labour

BYLINE: William Rees Mogg

SECTION: Features; 16

LENGTH: 1396 words


To understand any institution -a college, a business, a regiment, a newspaper or
a political party -you have to feel some affection for it. You do not need to
agree with its policies or admire its leaders, but you have to have some
sympathy with the loyalties of its members. That is why many journalists have so
little feel for the Conservative Party. They see all its real faults, and some
that do not exist, but they do not see its virtues. They cannot therefore
understand why, come hell or high water, about a third of British voters turn
out to vote for it.

Many journalists have not really understood the revolutionary change that
William Hague made in the party's constitution. He gave the election of the
leader to the membership. The Conservative leadership is democratic; Iain Duncan
Smith knows that he holds his office because the ordinary constituency activists
preferred him, or his policies, to those of his rival, Kenneth Clarke.

This was not a matter of personalities. Kenneth Clarke plainly possessed greater
experience -by a wide margin -and better presentational skills. It was a policy
matter. The Tories in the country agreed with IDS on Europe, and rejected
Clarke's European views. If the Labour activists had been given a similar
choice, Gordon Brown might well have beaten Tony Blair. Political activists will
not vote for the good presenter with a policy they distrust, and they have
always distrusted Blair's vision of new Labour.

Last week there was a small ripple in the newspapers, caused by rumours that
Theresa May was to be replaced as chairman of the Conservative Party. On
Saturday this was denied by Iain Duncan Smith, who had made a reassuring
telephone call from his Scottish holiday. On Thursday The Daily Telegraph had
published an interview with Tim Yeo, the Shadow Secretary for Trade and
Industry. He did not mention Mrs May, but described the problems of the party in
terms which were held by the Telegraph to criticise her.

It was, on the face of it, an innocuous interview, supporting Iain Duncan
Smith's leadership, suggesting that Central Office should concentrate on
marginal seats, warning against complacency though suggesting that the party
should revise its expectations upwards, perhaps to a gain of 100 seats. Probably
Mr Yeo would have been wiser not to give the interview, particularly as he had
been suggested in some newspapers as a possible replacement for Mrs May. But, at
worst, no great harm was done, if no good either.

It may, however, have irritated people in the constituencies, if only because of
the heading, "Yeo Piles Pressure on May". The real Tory party, particularly the
active members in winnable seats, are loyalists. They do not want changes at the
top. They are not complacent -few of them expect to win the next general
election -but they are regaining their confidence. They have survived 10
disastrous years, from 1992 to 2002, but they now believe that the worst is
over.

They are angry whenever they see anyone rocking the boat, even as mildly as a
heading on page 2 of The Daily Telegraph. They might not have stood for Iain
Duncan Smith sacking Theresa May, even if he had wanted to. They are loyal to
her because they are loyal to the party, and they know that party unity is the
condition of further progress. Tim Yeo is not the flavour of the month of
August, though a good party conference speech by him could put that right in
October.

I happened to visit a Conservative constituency last month, to talk about the
new European constitution. It was North West Hampshire; Sir George Young is the
Member and Andover is the main town. I have seldom seen a constituency in better
shape.

If prizes were awarded for healthy constituencies, I would have pinned a blue
rosette on it. Of course, George Young is a good Member of Parliament, as
popular in his constituency as he is in the House of Commons. He would have made
an excellent Speaker. His constituency association is not complacent, but it is
confident. The feel is right.

At the constituency level, a recovery is taking place. There are still people
who criticise IDS and say that the party can never win under his leadership. But
there are also those who think that he is gaining in experience and
self-confidence. His top team is regarded as more than a match for its opposite
numbers on the Labour front bench.

Michael Howard, Michael Ancram, Oliver Letwin -seen as a rising star -and
Theresa May herself are all perceived by their supporters in the country as
definitely effective. Conservative supporters do not all read policy documents,
but they accept that policies are being developed which would make sense to
them.

There are even signs of the young taking a new look at the Conservatives. If
politics is about fashion, new Labour may be taking over from the Tories as the
unfashionable party.

The latest opinion poll supports this impression. The Mail on Sunday published a
YouGov poll yesterday; it had been taken in August. The figures are:
Conservatives 38; Labour 34; Liberal Democrats 21. No one can be sure how this
would convert into seats at an actual general election. It would, however, cost
Labour enough seats to threaten its overall majority.

Some commentators have argued that Labour has little to fear: governments, they
write, always suffer mid-term unpopularity, Labour will inevitably recover.
There is, in fact, nothing inevitable about it. Labour did not recover in 1970
or 1979; the Conservatives in 1997. All that one can say is that most
governments become unpopular in their mid-term, and that they sometimes recover
but sometimes not.

What is dangerous is an unfavourable trend. Unless Labour can reverse the
present trend, it will be in serious trouble in an election in 2005 or 2006,
which is still a long way off.

There is, however, an election taking place before 2005, which presents Labour
with an unusual difficulty. In June 2004, only ten months away, there will be
the next European elections. The past European elections were very bad for
Labour, particularly in England. Despite a large vote for the United Kingdom
Independence Party, sufficient to win three English seats under the proportional
system, the Conservatives beat Labour in England by 38.5 to 21.5 per cent, on a
very low turnout. That was in a month when Labour was ahead by 26 points in the
Gallup poll.

The European constitution will be central to the next European elections. The
present plan is to complete the intergovernmental negotiations by the end of
this year and to ratify the treaty by the end of June. This timing is quite
likely to slip. The Government is still fighting to avoid a referendum on the
European constitution, and it hopes to use a purely parliamentary procedure,
with no public vote. Unless the Government gives way, its veto on a referendum
will become the great issue of next June's European elections.

One has to look only at the electoral factors to see how dangerous this European
election could be for Labour. If one compares the August YouGov in 2003 with the
August Gallup in 1998 -ten months before the last European election -there has
been a swing of 15.5 per cent to the Conservatives. Yet in 1999 the small
European turnout gave the Conservatives, who were still far behind in the polls,
an 8 per cent majority in the European elections.

Now the Conservatives start ahead. The next ten months may be difficult for
Labour -the Conservatives may go ahead still further. Add to that, the polls
show that 80 per cent of voters want a referendum. The European constitution
involves the creation of a single European state. One can see the possibility of
catastrophe for Labour in the European elections.

Perhaps it would be the sort of catastrophe which forces a change of leader.

Perhaps it would force a change of policy. At any rate, it looks as threatening
as an electoral Niagara, potentially as big a collapse of support as the
Conservatives suffered in 1997.

This is all the more dangerous because the issue of a European constitutional
referendum goes to the heart of the issue of trust. In June 2004, on the
European issue, the Conservatives will be campaigning to trust the people. The
Labour campaign will be to trust the politicians.

Join the Debate on these articles at comment@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited
