
                               1 of 10 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 29, 2003, Thursday

UKIP pins its hopes on former Clinton spin doctor

SECTION: Pg. 25

LENGTH: 246 words

Now that the war in Iraq has ended, America's major political players are taking
an ever closer interest in international politics.

Take Dick Morris (pictured), who, as chief strategist, masterminded Bill
Clinton's election victory in 1996. Spy can reveal that the former spin doctor -
once dubbed "the second most powerful man in the White House" - will spend
Saturday and Sunday in negotiations with the UK Independence Party, with a view
to running its campaign for next year's European elections.

"Morris believes that Britain's continued membership of the EU poses a
fundamental threat to the English-speaking world," says a senior UKIP source.
"He has expressed a serious interest in UKIP's philosophy, and we now want to
sign him up for the election campaign. The only question is whether we'll be
able to afford him."

If nothing else, Morris should at least liven up UKIP cocktail parties. A
colourful character - he was once caught entertaining a prostitute in a
Washington hotel - he turned against Clinton after the 1996 election, and has
since become one of his former boss's sternest critics.

On Europe, he recently wrote (in these pages): "The political lesson of the war
in Iraq is that the people of America and Britain have far more in common with
one another than do the British people with the French or the Germans."

UKIP MEP Nigel Farage said yesterday: "We are having meetings in London at the
weekend with Mr Morris, but it's early days yet."

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                               2 of 10 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            May 28, 2003, Wednesday

Britain in Europe

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: Features; 6

LENGTH: 87 words


DON'T expect too many piercing insights into the European Convention from
Britain in Europe, the pro-euro pressure group. Simon Buckby, its director, had
to admit in a radio debate with Nigel Farage, the UK Independence Party MEP,
that he did not know how much Britain's membership cost the taxpayer. He guessed
at Pounds 20 billion. The Treasury figure is Pounds 10 billion.

Farage said: "Buckby's organisation campaigns for continued British membership
of the EU without knowing how much it costs us."


LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               3 of 10 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 27, 2003

Hain claims victory on EU treaty: Tories dismiss 'cosmetic' changes to draft

BYLINE: Ian Black in Brussels and Sarah Hall

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 717 words


Britain claimed last night to have won key arguments about the new EU
constitution, as the Tories accused the government of eroding national
sovereignty.

As the draft document was published yesterday, Peter Hain, the Welsh secretary -
and Tony Blair's man on the European convention - hailed removal of the word
"federal" from the published draft treaty text. But critics dismissed this as a
cosmetic change that masked significant concessions.

"The important thing is that we got the term federal out," insisted Mr Hain.
"That makes it crystal clear that the idea of a Brussels superstate is a myth,
and we will have this new Europe which is a partnership of sovereign member
states like Britain."

"It is not the words that matter. It is the meaning of the words", retorted the
shadow foreign secretary, Michael Ancram, repeating the Conservatives' call for
a referendum - which has been ruled out by Downing Street.

The government could face an uncomfortable ride today when other parts of the
proposed treaty detail areas of policy where there is pressure to remove vetoes
being defended by Mr Blair.

Mr Hain acknowledged there were "important battles still to fight", including
those on cross-border social security measures, and on ensuring the proposed EU
foreign minister "remains firmly under the control of governments" rather than
that of the European commission.

Valery Giscard d'Estaing, the former French president and convention chairman,
unveiled his proposals to furious criticism from Eurosceptics and
integrationists alike.

Andrew Duff, the federalist British Liberal Democrat MEP, said: "It is crawling
in our direction, but it is still crawling. Reaction in the convention will be
extremely critical because it wants a more integrationist approach."

But Gisela Stuart, the Labour MP and only British representative on Mr Giscard's
13-member praesidium, or steering committee, responded: "People like Andrew Duff
want to create a Euro government. So I am very pleased that he's unhappy about
the draft."

Proposals for an EU diplomatic service - opposed by Britain - were deleted.
Timothy Kirkhope, a Conservative MEP on the convention, ar gued that retaining
UK control over taxation and defence had been won at the expense of other key
areas.

"Britain will have to subscribe to a European asylum and immigration policy and
the creation of a European public prosecutor," he said.

The government says it welcomes moves to boost EU-wide asylum policies but
firmly opposes the idea of a cross-border prosecutor.

It was clear from the often convoluted text that after 15 months of hearings,
and less than a month before the draft has to be submitted to the Salonika
summit, divisions are still deep.

A contentious debate on whether to refer to Christian values and God - something
the Vatican has been pushing - also remains unresolved.

Mr Giscard's spokesman, Nikolaus Meyer-Landrut, acknowledged that yesterday's
draft was far from final. The idea of the constitution is to streamline and
simplify EU institutions and procedures before the 10 new members join next May,
bringing the total to 25.

Main innovations are plans to create an EU president and foreign minister and to
incorporate a legally binding EU charter of fundamental rights - opposed by Mr
Blair.

The president is meant to replace the current system of a six-month rotation of
presidencies among member states, though most small countries and the commission
oppose the plan.

Long and bruising negotiations are likely to be needed to finalise the text, to
be presented by Mr Giscard in Salonika on June 20.

EU governments will then seek to agree on a final text by the end of the year,
though it could take longer. Silvio Berlusconi, Italian prime minister, is
lobbying for a new treaty of Rome to echo the EEC's founding document in 1957.

The most extreme response, foreshadowed by a British tabloid offensive, came
from the UK Independence Party, warning of "the end of the UK as a sovereign
nation."

Critics may be on firmer ground over the call for an extension of qualified
majority voting, though Britain will not be alone in opposing that.

EU constitution, page 4

Hugo Young, page 16

Leader comment, page 17

guardian.co.uk/eu


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               4 of 10 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 16, 2003

TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE IN EUROSCEPTICS' CAMPAIGN

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 238 words


NOW the war in Iraq is over, the debate about the euro is again making
headlines.

As a eurosceptic for many years, I find it increasingly frustrating that at a
time of impending constitutional change and possible referendum on Britain's
entry into the single currency, there is a total lack of v isible leadership in
the media from the anti-euro groups, be they party political or cross-party.

There are many well-informed groups: Democracy Movement, UKIP, Business for
Sterling, Campaign for an Independent Britain, Conservatives against a Federal
Europe, Labour Euro Safeguards Campaign, Congress for Democracy and New Europe,
to name a few, and dozens of smaller groups campaigning against joining.

Here lies the problem. Time is of the essence and all the anti-euro groups need
to put aside their petty differences and unite now.

They need to find a strong, articulate leader who must be visible and attractive
to the British public, preferably not a politician with personal political
ambition but someone who can challenge the pro-euro Tony Blair.

The truth needs to be conveyed in a plain, straightforward manner and not in the
usual, complicated euro jargon. The British public has the right to know the
consequences of joining the euro, w hich extend far beyond a change of notes and
coins.

Let's hope the right person for the j ob can be found - and soon.

Josephine Allen, Salhouse, Norwich

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               5 of 10 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 14, 2003

Does the EU threaten our freedom?

SECTION: Pg. 67

LENGTH: 243 words


YES

CONGRATULATIONS to the Daily Mail for having the courage to speak up for
Britain.

I fully support your campaign for a referendum on the EU constitution.

I find it incomprehensible that it is necessary for such a campaign, but with a
Prime Minister who believes he can take such an incredibly important decision
all by himself, something has to be done.

My own view is that in the long term, the only way in which Britain can retain
its identity and ability to govern itself is to negotiate an honourable
withdrawal from the EU.

George Bernard Shaw wrote: 'All great truths begin as blasphemies.' Mine is
surely the grandest political blasphemy of them all.

JEFFREY TITFORD, UK Independence Party MEP for Eastern Region, Chelmsford,
Essex.

NO

FEARS about the European constitution (Mail) are misplaced. Far from being a
blueprint for tyranny, the constitution will replace the current hodgepodge of
overlapping treaties with a single clear document laying down precisely the
limits to the field of EU responsibilities.

It will guarantee that the EU must respect fundamental rights and the identities
of its member states.

It will also ensure that no EU legislation can be adopted without passing two
tests: acceptability to the member states represented in the EU Council and
acceptability to the European Parliament, directly elected by citizens.

RICHARD CORBETT, Labour MEP for Yorkshire and Humber, Leeds.


LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               6 of 10 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 8, 2003, Thursday

EXIT OF TOP AIDE UNDERLINES WEAKNESS OF DUNCAN SMITH

BYLINE: PAUL WAUGH DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR Barry Legg's departure as chief
executive of the Conservative Party is regarded as an embarrassment for Iain
Duncan Smith PA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 825 words


WHEN IAIN Duncan Smith was asked on Breakfast with Frost two weeks ago whether
Barry Legg would be removed from his post of chief executive of the Tory Party,
his answer was categoric.

It was "complete nonsense" to suggest his close friend and fellow Maastricht
rebel would somehow be blocked by the party's ruling board, he said. "I've
already had him confirmed into post," he added, for good measure.

Last night, as Mr Legg's departure underlined the weakness of Mr Duncan Smith's
own leadership, those words returned to haunt him.

After just 79 days in post, the right-wing former Tory MP was forced to quit not
just as chief executive but also as the leader's personal chief of staff. An
apparently trivial internal row over backroom boys became a huge blow to the
leader's authority.

Officially, party officials announced the post of chief executive was abolished
after a "strategic review" of Central Office organisation by the board.

The formalities followed the usual pattern. Mr Duncan Smith thanked Mr Legg for
his work and, in a statement, the outgoing chief executive said he was "sorry to
be leaving so soon".

But nobody at Westminster was fooled and many Tory backbenchers shook their
heads in dismay at what they viewed as the inevitable conclusion of Mr Duncan
Smith's initial decision to appoint his old pal to such a top job. The
resignation followed frantic negotiations on the terms of his departure. The
sticking point seemed to be hard cash because Mr Legg's lawyers were demanding
pounds 160,000 in a settlement.

One member of the Shadow Cabinet suggested the resignation "would not cost the
party a penny" and some insiders claimed that Sir Stanley Kalms, the party
treasurer and founder of Dixons and PC World, had dug into his deep pockets to
fund the pay-off.

Given that Sir Stanley, with other members of the board, was among the prime
movers in the ousting of Mr Legg, such a move would confirm in stark terms the
power he holds over the Tory leader. "He who has the gold makes the rules," one
insider said.

But the root of the problem for Mr Duncan Smith also lay in the fact that
another veteran Tory, Derek Conway, had crossed swords with Mr Legg a while back
in December 2000. Mr Conway, a former whip in John Major's Government, had
stoicly endured the antics of Maastrict rebels such as Mr Duncan Smith and Mr
Legg in the 1990s.

Back in 2000, Mr Conway was up against Mr Legg in the selection for the safe
seat of Old Bexley and Sidcup when it emerged that one of the candidates for the
seat was rumoured to have tried to join the UK Independence Party. Mr Legg
denied any formal contact but looked shaken and off-form. Mr Conway went on to
win the seat but did not forget the incident.

On 14 February 2003, just as Hans Blix was due to deliver one of his reports to
the UN Security Council, Mr Legg's name cropped up again. In a Valentine's Day
Massacre of the modernisers, Mark MacGregor had been sacked by Mr Duncan Smith
by phone while he was on holiday in Paris and replaced by Mr Legg - it was a
swift and decisive blow.

Mr Legg made only a few brief visits to Conservative Central Office before the
ruling board made clear it was furious at being bypassed in the chief executive
appointment. Under the Tory constitution, the board has to approve the post but
the leader went ahead anyway. Theresa May, the chairman, was presented with the
move as a fait accompli.

When also told the news that Stephen Gilbert, the party's long-serving campaigns
chief, was being ousted, the board was in uproar. Michael Portillo, aggrieved at
the removal of his friend Mr MacGregor, saw his chance and publicly attacked Mr
Duncan Smith for a serious self-inflicted wound. A serious leader ought to
surround himself with "tall grasses", Mr Portillo said.

Mr Duncan Smith famously tried to laugh off the controversy as "meaningless" in
a Today programme interview but, as the weeks went by, it was clear that the
board would assert its own authority in an unprecedented challenge to the
leader.

Even without the appearance this week of old stories ont Mr Legg's past
involvement in the placing of homeless families in asbestos-ridden flats or an
pounds 18m pension raid on a firm of which he was company secretary, the board
was determined to act.

The total cost of the pay-offs to a string of staff hired or promoted by Mr
Duncan Smith and then let go now tops half a million pounds, senior sources told
The Independent.

"The problem now is who on earth would want the job of Chief of Staff after what
has happened." an MP said

One insider revealed that Mr Legg was in Warsaw yesterday when he was finally
told to go. David Davis was in Florida when he was sacked as party chairman by
Mr Duncan Smith, Mr MacGregor was in Paris when he received his marching orders.
"Anyone who gets a call abroad in future will be very, very nervous," one MP
joked last night.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                               7 of 10 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 7, 2003, Wednesday

BARRY LEGG THE LOYALIST MUST GO TO AVOID ANOTHER ROUND OF LEADERSHIP STORIES

BYLINE: MICHAEL BROWN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 588 words


LAST SATURDAY, I warned of the time bomb set off by the appointment in February
of Barry Legg as chief executive of the Conservative Party and suggested that
Iain Duncan Smith "might be wise to reconsider this appointment". As events
unfold, it is imperative for Mr Legg to spare his friend by doing the decent
thing and stepping down.

Dark rooms, whisky bottles and pearl-handled revolvers used to be the
stock-in-trade of the Tory party - I should know, after my own resignation from
John Major's government in 1994. If he is a true supporter of the party leader,
Mr Legg will not want to place Mr Duncan Smith in the position of having to take
the decision. Even worse would be the indignity of a row with the Conservative
Board and Tory MPs - possibly resulting in another wretched leadership story.

It is understandable that Mr Duncan Smith wants to surround himself with a
kitchen cabinet of soulmates who can be trusted to carry out his instructions.
Mr Legg was a close friend and associate during the days of the Maastricht
rebellion. The two had entered Parliament together at the 1992 general election.
Mr Legg cut his teeth in local politics during the 1980s on Westminster City
Council and had a reputation as a successful businessman.

The subsequent furore during the 1990s when Mr Legg was implicated in the
inquiry of the district auditor over the "homes-for-votes" scandal led to a
difficult time for him but he escaped the serious punishment meted out to Dame
Shirley Porter, who was the council leader. Mr Legg continued as an MP for
Milton Keynes and served as a diligent chairman of the Treasury Select
Committee.

But, as Derek Conway, the Tory MP for Old Bexley and Sidcup, has reminded us,
rewarding close friends with positions in politics is fraught with danger. The
Tories have made much since 1997 - rightly - of cronyism inside the Labour
government and need to be on firm ground themselves should further opportunities
arise to make such charges. And they would be wise not to dismiss Mr Conway, who
was a government whip for most of the 1992-97 parliament. He knows where too
many bodies are buried already. It was ironic that Mr Legg found himself up
against Mr Conway, who lost his Shrewsbury seat in 1997, for the selection at
Bexley in December 2000. Stories emerged earlier this year, which were denied,
that Mr Legg had been considering joining the UK Independence Party. Rumours
have also circulated that he had even been removed from the candidates' list by
the Hague regime after the 1997 election and was only restored after pressure
from Lord Tebbit and Mr Duncan Smith. Mr Conway claims to know full details of
these matters.

So Mr Legg is a marked man in the eyes of Mr Conway and it would be very unwise
for the leadership to try to blacken the Conway name. His memory for details of
past events is elephantine. He learnt his politics as a local councillor in the
North-east and the skills he acquired in fighting Labour made him a formidable
pairing whip. Mr Duncan Smith may be the quiet man but Mr Conway is the
relentless man of politics.

The reports against Mr Legg regarding the dumping of homeless people in blocks
of flats with asbestos in Westminster and the role he played at Hillsdown
Holdings over the company pension scheme are, to some extent, a rehash of old
stories but there may be further revelations. Whatever the truth, they will, at
the very least, disable Mr Legg and make it impossible for him to be effective
at Central Office.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                               8 of 10 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 6, 2003

Peterborough

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 737 words


The irates of Penzance

A SALTY old sea dog from Cornwall is planning a raid on the Tower of London - by
boat.

Penzance fisherman Mick Mahon intends to chug the whole way round the South
Coast of England, up the Thames and under Tower Bridge, to post a copy of the
Maastricht and Nice Treaties through Traitors' Gate.

'We're just at the planning stage,' roars the gloriously politically incorrect
Mahon from the decks of his 29ft stern trawler, the J-Anne.

The trip will be done in the name of the UK Independence Party, which Mahon
supports with all the might of his Captain Birdseye beard.

'We'll be coming via Brixham, Cowes, Portsmouth, Brighton and Dover,' continues
Mahon, who has little in common with that other great sailor, Sir Edward Heath.

Indeed, if you mention Heath's name you get the most violent, timber- shivering
crepitation.

'I've already had contact with Thames boatmen and they are talking about
escorting me up the river with a flotilla of small boats,' says Mahon, who will
not yet disclose the exact date for his arrival at Traitors' Gate.

He must first give the J-Anne a good swab-down.

At present she smells rather strongly of sardines - as fishy, you could say, as
the European Commission.

Bridesmaid on bridle path

ONE of the Princess of Wales's bridesmaids is saddling up for a 270-mile ride
through Namibian bandit country. Sarah-Jane Gaselee (above) will be travelling
from Duwisib to L*deritz - via the badlands of the diamond region - on a
Hanoverian, a sturdy, low-maintenance breed.

Just one problem: Sarah Jane, 31, is allergic to horse hair. 'I'll certainly be
packing the antihistamines with the cappuccino sachets,' she tells me.

The ride will raise money for London's Breast Cancer Care charity. The late
Princess would certainly approve. And Sarah-Jane's abiding memory of That
Wedding? Processing down the aisle and spotting Michael Foot, then leader of the
Labour Party. 'He was reading a newspaper,' she recalls, still chortling at the
thought.

BRITISH climbers in the Swiss Alps may have lost their crampon grips the other
day. As a low-flying aeroplane shot past, the pale face in the cockpit was
recognisable as that of Gerald Howarth, Tory MP for Aldershot and shadow defence
minister.

Howarth, who has had a pilot's licence since 1965 - before he could drive a car
- was having a test spin in a new Swiss two-seater trainer, the PC-21. In fact,
he was the first non-company civilian to fly it, and promptly weaved it in and
out of several snowcapped peaks.

'I took her right past the face of the Eiger, so close you could almost have
stuck out an arm and touched the rocks,' says Howarth.

OUT OF THE MOUTHS OF BABES

i IN THE small darkened room at the National Gallery, where the dimly lit
Leonardo cartoon reposes behind a glass frame, I sat by a young girl who
whispered: 'When does it start?' Maurice Cross, Keynsham, Bristol.

i MY GRANDDAUGHTER was anxious to land the role of Mary Magdalene in the Sunday
School Easter play. She came home very excited, saying: 'Mum, I've got the part
of Magnet Mary!'

i AT THE christening of her baby brother, my friend's daughter, aged six,
watched very intently as the vicar poured the holy water over the baby's
forehead. She then turned to the congregation and said loudly: 'My mummy washes
my hair.' Muriel Hunt, Bristol.

Miss G. East, Didcot, Oxon.

One line philosophers

A rose by any other name might prove difficult to pronounce. Chas Downes,
Goudhurst, Kent.

Raising children is like playing golf - you think you'll do better the next time
round. Julie Harris, Cardiff.

Those who try hard and don't succeed deserve some respect.

Paul M. Curran, Eglinton, Co Derry.

New pattern

TIME was when Mr C. Patten was plain Chris. Over time, however, the Brussels
panjandrum seems to be adopting the style of 'Christopher'. In recent days, he
has fired off two letters to the Press as 'Christopher', and the grander moniker
was adopted during his election campaign to become Chancellor of Oxford
University. What a change from his airy claim at the end of the Eighties:'No one
calls me Christopher, apart from my mother and Enoch Powell.'

This England

SPOTTED in St Gregory's Guild Club (where Peter Kay's Phoenix Nights was
filmed): 'Kindly keep children off seats. Use ashtrays provided.' Ian Davies,
Bolton, Lancs.


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               9 of 10 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 6, 2003

Backing for iris chip in passports

BYLINE: Michael White, Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 491 words


David Blunkett won cautious support at home and abroad last night for the rapid
development and use of biometric testing of travellers' eyes as a near-foolproof
means of checking identity at international border crossings.

If successfully adopted on an international scale, new technology could head off
pressure to introduce internal identity cards - "entitlement cards" as the home
secretary hopes to call them - inside Britain, a controversial policy.

A scheme to equip British passports with biometric chips capable of storing
details of the holder's fingerprint and iris pattern, which are both extremely
hard to fake, is due to start by 2004-05, according to the passport agency.

Around 90 million people pass through the UK each year.

Yesterday the home secretary won the agreement of interior ministers belonging
to the G8 group of industrialised states to cooperate in an attempt to develop a
global system which could strengthen defences against terrorism, organised
crime, illegal immigration and identity theft for criminal purposes.

"Common standards in biometrics will be vital to ensure we get the most from the
enormous strides being made in the development of this cutting-edge technology.

"In 10 years' time, we must not find ourselves behind other countries," Mr
Blunkett warned after yesterday's G8 meeting in Paris.

The home secretary has repeatedly aroused the suspicions of civil liberty groups
and politicians because of the stance that he has adopted to tackle the changing
threats to domestic order since the September 11 terrorist attacks.

Among the G8 ministers Mr Blunkett addressed yesterday was John Ashcroft, the US
attorney general, whose reputation is even tougher than his own.

But last night Oliver Letwin, the Tory home affairs spokesman, and Simon Hughes,
his Liberal Democrat counterpart, agreed that the change might allow better
security without the threat of ID cards that contain too much information on the
individual.

Mr Letwin said that identity cards could be forged and also "contain a huge
amount of information about you.

"The iris has the advantage of being a unique identifier which can't carry other
information," he added.

The proposed scheme might allow Britain to drop border controls with other EU
states, said Mr Hughes, a lawyer with strong civil liberties credentials.

The home secretary said that it was vital to remain "ahead of the game" with
fast-moving technologies when dealing with international criminals.

* The United Kingdom Independence party said last night that it had rejected an
approach on behalf of the British National party leader, Nick Griffin,
requesting that the two parties hold talks with a view to "dividing up the
country" ahead of next year's European elections.

"There are no circumstances under which UKIP would consider an electoral pact
with the BNP," said Nigel Farage, an MEP for the UKIP.


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               10 of 10 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 1, 2003, Thursday

ON THE ROAD;
 RON MACKENNA WITNESSES CAMPAIGN APATHY ON THE DOORSTEP OF SCOTLAND'S

BYLINE: RON MACKENNA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 270 words


WE'RE in Scotland's capital. On it's busiest street. Less than 16 hours until
the polls open. And where are they?

Arguably the most important election in Scotland's history and apart from
tourists, shoppers and a man with a billboard advertising the Saigon Saigon
Chinese restaurant - there's nobody here.

No politicians anyway. Not a single mainstream political party is to be seen the
length and breadth of Princes Street.

Former SNP firebrand Margo MacDonald has just whizzed by on her battlebus,
loudspeaker booming, but she ain't stopping for a chat.

So that doesn't count.

Hang on though. All is not lost. In the rain-soaked middle of the capital,
within spitting distance of the parliament, stands one forlorn soul handing out
leaflets.

"Hi," he says. "My name's Bob McWhirter, UK Independence Party."

Ah, I recognise that sinking heart moment.

Bob, 37, "but don't mention my age", wants to abolish the Scottish Parliament.

So he's hardly the man to be speaking to on the eve of such a crucial election.
The voters obviously agree.

They stream up to him in their dozens and then just keep on going.

The Hare Krishnas are doing better business.

"So, Bob how's it going," I ask. "Well, people do stop,' he says, "But sometimes
they say I'm representing the idiot party."And are you? I inquire.

At this point Bob launches into a long and detailed explanation which quite
frankly saps my will to live.

I move on. Politely.

There really are no other politicians here.

No stands, no party hacks, nothing. And they say it's voter apathy that's
killing democracy.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.
