
                                1 of 9 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 31, 2003, Friday

British treatment of asylum-seekers

SECTION: Features; 25

LENGTH: 266 words


From Mr Graham Booth, MEP for South West Counties (UK Independence Party)

Sir, The recent arson attack on the proposed site of an asylum-seekers' centre
in Portland, Dorset (report, January 29), whilst not to be condoned, is hardly
surprising.

I addressed the Portland meeting on Monday night, and can attest to the strength
of feeling amongst local residents. It is no exaggeration to say that the island
would be swamped by asylum-seekers should the centre go ahead.

The UK is suffering disproportionately as a result of European Union policies on
asylum. The Dublin Convention was supposed to prevent the circulation of illegal
immigrants around the EU, but is actually acting as a disincentive to other EU
members to enforce their immigration laws. The French tolerated thousands of
economic migrants at the Sangatte camp, but did nothing about their illegal
entry into France; such action would have forced the residents to claim asylum
in France, whereas inaction ensured that they would become a British problem if
they could be encouraged to continue their journey without impediment.

The recent posturing by both Tories and Labour merely disguises the fact that
the UK is not free to act unilaterally and decide who does, and who does not,
remain in the UK. Without our leaving the European Union, it is not possible for
Parliament to regain these powers, and politicians who claim otherwise are
guilty of distorting the truth.

Yours faithfully, GRAHAM BOOTH (Group for a Europe of Democracies and
Diversities), 41 Oyster End, Paignton TQ4 6NL.

January 29.


LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                                2 of 9 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 30, 2003

Letter: Media shares BNP blame

BYLINE: Roger Knapman

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 23

LENGTH: 238 words


The UK Independence party is not, as Labour claims (Labour seeks to stop BNP
making more gains, January 28), in a state of "virtual collapse", and remains
the UK's fourth largest party, with a growing membership. We have almost 30
local councillors (six times as many as the BNP), with a significant number
gained by the defection of Labour councillors. Last May, we averaged 8% of the
vote in local government wards we contested, and aim to increase that
significantly this year.

The BNP succeeds by targeting large, run-down council estates with a generally
low income, poorly educated electorate. These estates have ended up in this
situation precisely because the three main parties have failed in their duty and
reneged on their promises to improve the quality of life there.

By contrast, the smaller moderate parties have both the credibility and the
policies to achieve what the main parties have failed to do. The fact that the
UK Independence party, the Greens and the Socialist Alliance between them
contested over 2,500 wards last May was not remarked upon in the national media
because of the obsession with the BNP, who put forward a mere 96 candidates. If
the media continues to ignore the very parties that can credibly oppose the
racist rhetoric of the BNP in these wards, then it must also share the blame
when the BNP proves successful.

Roger Knapman

Leader, UK Independence party


LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                                3 of 9 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 28, 2003

Policy and politics: Labour seeks to stop BNP making more gains

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour and Lucy Ward

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 694 words


Labour's national executive committee will today hold an informal inquest into
the British National party's victory in Halifax last week, with some in the
party concerned that a combination of a weak Conservative party and the media
focus on asylum issues is aiding the far right.

The debate comes ahead of May's local elections with concern growing that the
BNP could make serious gains. Opinion is divided over the best way to combat the
party. Some Labour insiders argue it should be confronted directly and others
say it would be better to address the underlying insecurities on which it feeds.

"We have got to have decisive local leadership that is capable of combating the
myth that voting for the BNP will improve community services," Shahid Malik, an
NEC member, said yesterday.

"Local leaders have got to find a way of reinvigorating local democracy."

But some Labour MPs are increasingly open about saying faults in the asylum
system send out the wrong signals. Jon Owen Jones, MP for Cardiff Central, said
yesterday: "We need to review the qualifications for asylum so that those who
are most potentially dangerous are not the most qualified to claim."

He added: "We have a conundrum. So far it has been addressed by the rabid
far-right press sensationalising it or by the liberal press ignoring it. We need
a rational debate."

But Claude Moraes, a London MEP, urged the party not to be taken in by the myth
that it can overcome anxieties on the issue by withdrawing from international
conventions.

"We have to look at the way in which similar far-right figures across Europe
have made progress by becoming clean-cut, refusing interviews and by pouring
resources into specific estates," Mr Moraes said.

He added that the BNP's progress across the north was a product of specific
difficulties in Bradford last year, pointing out the party had been seen off in
its one-time homeland of east London.

Labour is concerned at signs that Tory weakness is leading white working class
people to switch to the far right. Ironically, the relative silence of the
Tories on asylum until today's statement by the shadow home secretary, Oliver
Letwin, might have given the BNP space.

The Labour general secretary, David Triesman, has a small group of backbench MPs
informally advising him on how to combat the BNP.

They are privately ready to exert pressure on the Labour party to ensure it has
candidates wherever the far right might seek to scoop up anti-Labour protest
votes. But the same group of Labour MPs are wary of giving the BNP any excuse to
claim to be the victim of a conspiracy.

The BNP website claims the Tories' "accelerating collapse is one of the most
important factors in favour of the BNP".

The BNP is working hard in Bradford, Stoke-on-Trent, Bristol, Tipton and the
north-west.

Labour claims the virtual collapse of the anti-European UK Independence party is
also a problem, suggesting that disaffected Tories who turned to UKIP are
unlikely to return to the Conservatives.

* David Blunkett last night told Catholics in Swanwick, Derbyshire, that the Sun
was promoting racist views about asylum seekers. In the government's strongest
attack yet on a Rupert Murdoch title, the home secretary highlighted two
articles in yesterday's Sun which claimed asylum seekers were bringing disease
to Britain.

A leading article claimed asylum seekers had "barged in uninvited", adding:
"This sea of humanity is polluted with terrorism and disease."

This was echoed by the paper's political editor, Trevor Kavanagh, who wrote that
the "colonisation" of Britain by asylum seekers "has brought with it alarming
levels of infectious TB, hepatitis B, Aids - and a horrific knife culture".

This week on guardian.co.uk/ politics

* MP's diary

'Probably the single area in which politicians are most profoundly out of touch
with ordinary people is television' - Sion Simon MP stares into the digital
future

* Down the tube

Matthew Tempest on a book that reveals the crisis facing London's underground

* Find out first

Text 'GU politics on' to 82222 for daily SMS politics news


LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                                4 of 9 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            January 26, 2003, Sunday

MEMBERS' PERKS Trend follows Brussels ways Christopher Booker's Notebook

BYLINE: By Christopher Booker

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 283 words

Michael Trend, the Tory MP who has said he will stand down after it was
discovered that he had claimed nearly pounds 100,000 for overnight stays in
London when he was actually going back home to Windsor, is clearly in the wrong
parliament. For many members of the European Parliament, the only offence is not
to behave like Mr Trend - and on a much larger scale. Since 1999, Nigel Farage,
one of three UK Independence Party MEPs, has, along with his Conservative
colleague Daniel Hannan, been trying to expose the racket of MEPs' expenses.

In addition to their salary, MEPs can receive up to pounds 40,000 a year through
a daily subsistence allowance for being away from home (even though many live in
Brussels), and they must automatically accept up to pounds 30,000 a year for
travel to and from home, though their true costs may only be a fraction of that.
A further pounds 27,600 goes into their bank accounts to cover working expenses
in Britain, despite the fact that many live and work almost entirely in
Brussels. All told, they can receive up to pounds 140,000 a year.

Yet when Mr Farage announced that he had used the surplus on his travel payments
to assist victims of EU-related bureaucracy, including the "Metric Martyrs", he
was officially reprimanded. If his cheap monthly flight from Stansted to
Strasbourg costs only pounds 40, the rules dictate that the balance of the
mandatory pounds 700 given for travel expenses must be kept for his own private
use. If he puts it to any other purpose, he is not only breaking the rules, he
infuriates his fellow MEPs by highlighting the scam. As a keen Europhile, Mr
Trend should definitely apply for a transfer.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 The Telegraph Group Limited

                                5 of 9 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            January 26, 2003, Sunday

Rally in Malta draws 50,000 to oppose the EU MALTESE CROSS Christopher Booker's
Notebook

BYLINE: By Christopher Booker

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 645 words

In Malta last Sunday upwards of 50,000 opponents of Malta's bid to join the
European Union - one in seven of the population - jammed the streets of Marsa,
near Valetta, for the opening rally of a referendum campaign which promises to
give the EU an almighty snub (an equivalent turnout in Britain would be eight
million). Although the ruling Nationalist Party wants Malta to lead the way
among the 10 countries the EU hopes will vote to join by 2004, it is fiercely
contested by the opposition Labour Party. Even the Brussels commissioner
responsible for wooing the applicant countries concedes that the vote, due in
March, may go against him.

In 1999 I was invited to Malta by its former Labour prime minister, Dr Mifsud
Bonnici, to launch the Campaign for National Independence. Last week, as the
parties geared up for the final weeks of the campaign, I returned to see how the
battle was going. The European Commission has pulled out all stops in its
desperation to secure a "yes" vote. It has poured millions of taxpayers' euros
into propaganda. Romano Prodi, the Commission President, is due to make another
visit this week, following a five-day blitz by the "enlargement" commissioner,
Gunter Verheugen. Ministers, MEPs and Commission officials have arrived in a
steady stream, in the most determined assault Malta has seen since the siege of
1941-3.

The fanatically pro-Brussels Nationalist Party has played all the usual cards in
campaigning for a "yes", from promises that Brussels will shower the island with
subsidies to warnings that, if tiny Malta refuses "Mother Europe's" welcoming
embrace, it faces impoverished isolation in a perilous world. What distinguishes
Malta from all other applicant countries, however, is that it has an opposition
just as firmly hostile to membership.

The Labour Party points out that the cost of complying with 86,000 pages of EU
directives and regulations will far outweigh any net benefit from EU subsidies,
and that Maltese taxpayers will have to match most of those subsidies pound for
pound anyway. But the key point, made in a succession of meetings during my
visit to the island last week with a British MEP, Nigel Farage of the UK
Independence Party, was that, once it is submerged in a political union 1,000
times bigger than itself, Malta will lose all right to run itsown affairs.
Although, as a sweetener, the Maltese have been been promised five seats in the
European Parliament (wholly disproportionate to their population), Mr Farage
could point out that, since MEPs have no power anyway, this would give Malta no
more influence over EU policy than it has now.

Inevitably in such an intensely political island, the Maltese have complicated
their referendum battle. The Labour Party insists that what really matters is
not the referendum but the next general election, and says it may yet ask its
members to boycott the March vote as irrelevant, despite every indication that
the "Noes" will win.

We had a surreal exchange with Dom Mintoff, the 86-year-old former prime
minister, who insists that Malta should continue to negotiate until the EU
changes into something different. He angrily told me I should insist that The
Daily Telegraph withdraws its support for EU enlargement - to which I replied
that he had no more hope of changing the nature of the EU than I could have in
influencing the policies of the Telegraph.

But the most haunting impression we were left with of this island where
democracy still matters was the thought of what might happen to all those 50,000
people who last week took to the streets to express their passionate conviction
that Malta should not lose its right to self-government. If in 10 years' time,
living in a tiny corner of the new "United States of Europe", they see that it
no longer matters what they think, where will all that passion be directed then?

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 The Telegraph Group Limited

                                6 of 9 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           January 14, 2003, Tuesday

Home thoughts

BYLINE: Edited by Charlie Methven

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 138 words

A moment of high farce enlivened yesterday's debate at the European Parliament
in Strasbourg.

The UK Independence Party's new MEP Graham Booth gave his maiden speech,
electing - as is his right - to speak in his mother tongue: Devonian.

"Maister Preziden," reads the speech, on regionalisation. "If I axed my mates
back 'ome where they come from, they'd zay 'Deb'm'. Not Cornwall, cross the
River Tamar, which is furrin parts; not Zomerset, where awl they toffs live.
That's to close to Lunnon for their liking."

"As for Lunnon," he adds, "that used to be dree days on the vast stagecoach, and
there's many of uz volks who never did get used to they new-vangled things like
'orseless carriages and they motorway things which brings awl they furriners to
our neck of the woods."
[PS]Features: [ES]

Peterborough:

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                                7 of 9 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 10, 2003, Friday

What must the Tory party do to halt the decline in its popularity?

SECTION: Features; 36

LENGTH: 1247 words


A Conservative shake-up

Fewer people are voting in elections because they believe that there is little
difference between the parties on major issues, and therefore the democratic
process makes little difference to their lives. The Tory party's return to power
can be achieved only by offering policies which reflect the views of the
electorate. Policies on such fundamental issues as law and order, European
political integration and immigration must take into account the views of
ordinary people and not just those of the political and judicial elite. In a
nutshell, the Tories must reintroduce democracy.

Roger Craig, Otley, West Yorkshire

Clarke and the euro

The answer to the decline in Tory popularity is straightforward and has been
clear for many months. The Conservative Party must replace Iain Duncan Smith
forthwith with Kenneth Clarke.

The prospective new leader must, however, publicly declare that the euro is not
to be treated as a party political issue. As both principal parties are divided
on this matter, KC can persuade many disaffected former Tory voters to return to
the fold if he is willing to allow a free debate on the issue.

This will be safe territory as a referendum on the euro will be overwhelmingly
defeated.

C. M. Brand, Heswall, Cheshire

Don't retreat from criticism

Until recently I believed in Iain Duncan Smith -his policies seemed to be sound
and he appeared to understand the concerns of the public on a number of issues.
He gives me the impression of an honest and genuine man with integrity, rare
commodities indeed for a politician. However, his leadership needs to be
stronger and he appears to lack the charisma to lead the country.

What people want is for Britain to be kept as Great Britain, not just turned
into another European state. Not a day goes by without my hearing, seeing or
reading yet more evidence of our sovereignty being further eroded and literally
given away in a mass handout to European bureaucrats. Politicians care too much
about themselves and their own hidden agendas and not enough about what the
public wants.

The Tories must listen to the public and not retreat once any criticism comes in
from the few but very vocal do-gooders. They must stop bickering about
leadership, unite and show a common front to the public.

Ian Gray, Grimsby

A party to be trusted

Concentrate on principles and policies that are right and explain them better
with references to supporting sources. Start by doing this on a separate section
of the party website and keep it up to date.

Choose candidates for ability and integrity. People won't vote for a party with
a good manifesto if it cannot be trusted to implement that manifesto.

Brian Gilbert, Hampton, Middlesex

Terms of endearment

Since our elected representatives are denied the opportunity to vote on the most
critical, life-or-death issue of our time, the Conservatives would endear
themselves to the majority of our citizens if they launched an aggressive,
all-out campaign against any military action in Iraq without formal United
Nations approval. They might even win the vote of this lifelong (currently
disenchanted) socialist.

John Cottrell, Addlestone, Surrey

What's in a name

The Tories should change their name...to Radical Labour!

Nikhil Kaushik, Wrexham

Bad for the image

For goodness sake remove Michael Howard from the Shadow Cabinet. He is not
trusted by the electorate as Ann Widdecombe said, he has "something of the
night" about him. He represents the worst image of the old guard.

Every time he speaks so many of us loyal Tories groan with dislike and concern
for the party.

Don Wetherly, donandjean54@hotmail.com

Libby for leader

In recent months Libby Purves has shown that she could do a better job as
Minister of Transport, Home Secretary and now Defence Secretary than the present
incumbents. The Tory party should invite her to take over the leadership but it
might just have some difficulty persuading her.

Patrick White, Warrington

Leadership is not the issue

The Conservative Party has been flatlining in the polls at 30 per cent, give or
take, since September 1992, under three different leaders. The leadership issue
is an easy thing for jittery MPs to focus on to explain away the party's poor
performance, but it is a distraction, and the endless speculation about it is
damaging the party. The media, of course, love it.

What the party needs is to hold its nerve, stop washing dirty linen in public,
and get on and tell the voters what platform it is expecting them to vote for.

Austin Spreadbury, Enfield

A religious perspective

Although it will not win them immediate popularity, the Tories, under the
leadership of Iain Duncan Smith, a practising Roman Catholic, should learn from
the Archbishop of Canterbury's Dimbleby Lecture that in our consumer culture
"our whole politics is likely to be in deep trouble" without the perspective of
a religious tradition.

They should also learn from the Chief Rabbi's book The Politics of Hope that in
the morality specifically of the Judaeo-Christian tradition "we have at our
disposal a resource of unparalleled power with which to confront the problems of
the new millennium".

From this moral debate, the Tories would learn the truth of the biblical
injunction: "Seek ye first the Kingdom of God, and His righteousness; and all
these things will be added unto you."

The Rev John D. Brown, Middleton-on-Sea, West Sussex

Changing values

To ditch the fuddy-duddy image only a change of leadership and direction will
suffice. The Tories need to be seen as a credible alternative to Labour, and not
just a party of reaction.

While there is no need to ditch traditional tenets, the party must keep up with
changing British values in order to have an impact on the political agenda.

Hinesh Rajani, Harlow, Essex

Stand up for Britain

To halt its decline, the Conservative Party should lift its embargo on the
subject of Europe, and warn the country that the draft EU constitution will be
the end of the UK as a self-governing nation.

The party should recognise publicly that its hope for improving domestic
policies will be mostly unworkable so long as we are subject to Brussels. It
should also acknowledge that the UK Independence Party has the right policy, and
invite it to join in the campaign against the constitution.

In short, stand up for the country and see the support flow back.

Sir George Earle, Crediton, Devon

Choosing the right colour

My diary entry for Friday, July 20, 2001 reads: "It seems that this has been a
disastrous week for the Tories. Portillo has been ousted from the leadership
race and has sworn to leave politics before the next election. The other two
candidates are no more than poor caretakers for the post. Lord Archer has been
put in the slammer for four years and should, by all rights, be stripped of his
peerage."

There may be a serendipitous connection between these events. At the end of four
years, Archer can leave prison and Portillo can step down in his favour in
Kensington and Chelsea, thus paving the way for the Conservative Party to have
the charismatic and principled leader it deserves.

There is still time if Archer renounces his peerage as an act of contrition, and
the electors of Kensington and Chelsea show their usual preference for colourful
candidates.

James Boyd, Brussels


LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                                8 of 9 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            January 5, 2003, Sunday

EURO MPS' POUNDS 1 M CON;
 THEY MAKE PROFIT ON CHEAP FLIGHTS

BYLINE: NIGEL NELSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 247 words


GREEDY Euro MPs are making MILLIONS in a flights and perks rip-off.

They're paying as little as pounds 9.99 for trips to Brussels on low-cost
airline Ryanair - but pocketing the full Club Class fare of pounds 444 in
expenses.

And they even get 20 per cent on top for "extras" such meals and taxis. Other
EU-approved perks can push their earnings to an amazing pounds 250,000 a year -
or pounds 1.25 MILLION over a five-year parliamentary term.

Last night, MEP Nigel Farage admitted:"It's institutionalised corruption and the
EU is rotten to the core."

British MEPs get a basic Westminster-style salary of pounds 55,000 but they can
also expect pounds 22,100 a year in attendance fees, pounds 27,000 in office
costs, pounds 91,800 for staff, pounds 52,000 in air fares and pounds 2,100 for
additional travel.

Mr Farage, of the UK Independence Party, said he was so disgusted by the EU's
"freebie" culture he gave his air fare savings to charity - and was fined pounds
10,500 by bureaucrats for "misusing" it.

And Tory MEP Daniel Hannan said: "I tried to claim the actual cost of my air
fare and was told I couldn't because the computers are set in a certain way.

"Huge sums of money are involved and it's indefensible that this is allowed to
go on."-Salary: pounds 55K &

pounds 22.1K to turn up.

-pounds 27K to run office & pounds 91.8K for staff.

-pounds 52K air fares plus pounds 2.1K for additional travel.

Total: pounds 250K x 5yrs

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                                9 of 9 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 3, 2003, Saturday

PANDORA

BYLINE: Katy Guest

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 675 words


Fear and loving in Colorado

In a bizarre parody of the Hello! magazine-style celebrity home shoot, the Gonzo
journalist Hunter S Thompson recently allowed Book magazine into his spacious
home - a fortified compound near Aspen, Colorado - to photograph his stylish
interiors. As you might expect, however, the resulting article is a long way
from the glitzy spreads in Hello!. One picture shows the hood of Thompson's
cooker, which bears a nasty-looking dent. "That's me in a fit of real anger,"
the host explains. "I imagine my hand must have been swollen for a real long
time. I think it had something to do with the Rolling Stone publisher and media
tycoon Jann Wenner." Another shows an even nastier-looking "Powermax Stun
Baton". "It's a serious cattle prod," says the proud homeowner. "Well, it's for
people, but I guess it could be used on cattle. The only other person I know who
has one is Keith Richards. It was a present from me." There is one item in the
house about which Thompson reluctantly admits to being embarrassed: a huge,
shrine- like picture of the actress Charlotte Rampling. "I have a crush on her,"
shrugs Thompson. "Always have." Well, who knows? After reading the article,
perhaps she'll get in touch.

Don't expect Sue MacGregor (right) to be misty-eyed about the Today programme
now she has retired as its presenter. In this week's New Statesman she says:
"Longer, darker mornings give former Today presenters a delicious chance to stay
in bed until a more decent hour. Which means I regularly enjoy listening to my
old programme from a less-than-vertical position." However, "I grump... loudly
when someone's not allowed to finish a sentence. I still can't fathom what the
weather's going to be like after listening really hard to each forecast, and I'm
maddened by the newsroom -speak'." But she clearly doesn't feel the need to
remain tactful after leaving Today. Adding her twopennyworth to its "One In, One
Out" poll, she votes for Robert Mugabe to come here ("so he can stop his ruinous
policies in Zimbabwe") and Harry Potter to emigrate. "Enough already of the
ubiquitous whizzkid," she grouches.

IN A PECULIAR move, a Tory MP, David Cameron, has been offering advice to New
Labour on how to improve its spin techniques. Cameron has done some press work
for government ministers and large corporations. "As well as actually saying: I
don't know' or I can't tell you', we've all tried variants such as I'll get back
to you' and then leaving the phone off the hook, or roaring with laughter and
saying Who on earth told you that?'" he confides. "But the one thing even the
lowliest of spin paramedics is taught is that you must not lie: it means the end
of your credibility and it should mean the end of your job." Got that, Number
10?

A book is to be published about President Bush's chief political strategist,
Karl Rove. Rove is known for his ability to make good any mess, reveals the
book, leading Bush unkindly to nickname him "Turd Blossom".

AN UPDATE on the battle of the Basils that began in December when both the
Conservatives and the UK Independence Party (UKIP) chose a hotelier to stand as
their MEP candidate in Torbay - home of Basil Fawlty. UKIP's Graham Booth, a
Torquay hotelier for the past 40 years, has now been confirmed as the new MEP
for the South-West of England. "From what I have seen, the European Parliament
seems remarkably similar to Fawlty Towers," he says, cheerfully. "It is the
greatest political turkey of our time, and I hope that it will vote for
Christmas soon."

It's all over for another national institution: the launderette. The existence
of launderettes - in which Daniel Day-Lewis and Gordon Warnecke get it on in My
Beautiful Launderette and Nick Kamen famously removes his Levi's - is threatened
by the Disability Discrimination Act. "Immense difficulties will arise with
implementation of the act," declares an industry spokesman, "a physical
compliance with its measures being largely unworkable."

pandora@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd
