
                               1 of 10 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           November 30, 2003, Sunday

Dead wood in dead clubland

BYLINE: Jonathan Miller

SECTION: Features; News Review 4

LENGTH: 743 words


To lunch at the Savile Club in Brook Street, which occupies a splendid but
perhaps somewhat faded mansion between Claridge's and the American embassy. The
place is full of very old men -much older even than me. I am the only one not
wearing a suit and tie.

The excuse for the lunch is to ask whether I would come back in the spring for
another lunch and then to participate in a club debate about the BBC. Since I
can bore for Britain on the extortion racket operated by the BBC, I am happy to
accept the invitation and another lunch. But I also suspect that I am being
auditioned as possibly a new member (they are obviously a bit desperate).

I am sure they have the wrong man. I am completely hopeless in all-male
situations and never know what to say. The place is infested with members of the
UK Independence party whereas I would be quite happy for Britain to be run from
Brussels.

I find real interest only in the subject of my 1955 Citroen Traction 11B since
old cars are apparently acceptable to go on and on about. The food is good and
the members are sweet but I confess that I escape gratefully to the street.

I tell Mrs Miller about all of this and she expresses surprising enthusiasm for
the notion that I should join a club. As she is American, I think her idea of
this is taken from PGWodehouse tales of the Drones Club, as seen on TV. She
notes that if I were a clubman, I could go to my club and stay in one of the
rooms when I incur her displeasure and am sent away to do penance.

Mrs Miller and I are obviously on a different wavelength on this. I can imagine
almost no circumstances when I might wish to spend more than a night in London,
and there is nothing wrong with Claridge's.

In the days when I was a hotshot young police reporter for the Detroit Free
Press, I was a member of the Detroit Press Club, which I miss although 30 years
later the last of this generation of American newspapermen has mostly vanished,
replaced by scrubbed journalism school graduates.

The club premises, for which the word "dive" could have been coined, resembled a
speakeasy and probably had been. It was inhabited by characters straight out of
The Front Page and although not as grand as the Savile it did have a bank of pay
telephones so that members could stay in touch with their bookies and sometimes
drop a story to the desk.

I have been in a few London clubs in my day and am not sure that any of them
would be high on my list of places to spend a night or much more than lunch.

Brooks's Club was interesting and full of spooks -active, retired and of
indeterminate status. By which I mean some of the men on the leather seats could
well have been dead.

That these bodies do not actually decompose and raise a stink is because they
are pickled, a state that is common also to the living, given the prodigious
quantities of liquor consumed in these establishments. Hiding from women,
soused, seems to be what clubmanship is about.

The pool at the RAC, for instance, would be much better with some naked Swedish
girls. The Reform has the cachet of Sainsbury's. Without doubt the worst club in
London is the Garrick with a membership of people even more pompous than me so
you can imagine how insufferable they are.

The Groucho is louche and at least co-ed and 10 years ago I tried to join but
although Nigella Lawson voted for me I got blackballed by some BBC people.
Nigella said I could try again but I was hurt they were so mean and never have.

So on the whole, clubs -even ironic ones such as the Groucho and Soho House are
just not me. The only one I tried to join would not have me. As for the rest, I
am not sure I would have them. I guess I lack clubbability.

A reporter from a West Sussex local paper comes by the farm to do a profile of
me.

In a moment of weakness, I agree.

I have not seen the result yet and was not impressed that during her entire
visit she did not take a single note but when I questioned her about this she
said her memory was good. So I am obviously hoping for a fawning exegesis but
fear the worst.

Bernie Holmes writes from the garrigue near Caux to invite me to the English
carol service in Fontes when I am in France next month visiting the Swede. I
decline, noting my extreme allergy to Christmas and carols. Hearing Silent Night
I would reach for my revolver, if I had one, were I not a manque Buddhist.

jonathan.miller@sunday-times.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mean fields

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               2 of 10 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           November 28, 2003, Friday

Our ultimate safeguard is the monarch

SECTION: Pg. 29

LENGTH: 187 words

SIR - Surely it is now time for Michael Howard to draw a line in the sand over
Britain's relations with the EU and publicly announce that any further moves by
Labour towards what is euphemistically referred to as "integration" will be
rescinded by the future Tory government. Furthermore, Mr Howard should announce
that the Tories will renegotiate every last aspect of Britain's relations with
the EU.

Unless Mr Howard firmly sets out the Conservative position on the EU, he will
haemorrhage ever more votes to the UKIP and make his tenure of Number 10 far
less likely. I believe that the number of Tory Europhiles is dwindling by the
day, so there would be little chance of internal dissent. Several months ago,
David Heathcoat-Amory warned that the direction the EU is taking could
eventually end with civil disorder throughout Europe. I agree: history has shown
that disillusioned people are never afraid of demonstrating their political
frustrations violently if they feel their voice is being ignored by the
political elite.

Patrick Powell

St Breward, Cornwall [PS]Features [ES]

Letter to the Editor:

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                               3 of 10 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 26, 2003, Wednesday

The Chancellor's in fine voice but the words and figures don't agree

SECTION: Pg. 38

LENGTH: 392 words

NOW pay attention, all you Continentals. We can run our economy, so we don't
want you telling us how, or tangling us up in a web of regulations. Of course,
if you want to model yourselves on us, feel free - so long as we can feel free,
too.

Gordon Brown did not quite put it like that, addressing a conference of chief
executive officers. He did give them a speech of such Wagnerian length as to
test middle-aged bladders, and some of its nuances may have been lost in
compression, but you get the idea. Yesterday he was at it again in Brussels,
drawing red lines. Unfortunately, any CEO who supposed that the Chancellor had
joined Business for Sterling, or even the United Kingdom Independence Party,
needs to return to earth. Yet another round of European negotiations is in
prospect, and he's merely opening the bidding high, before finishing up in a
confusion of concessions, trading apples for pears at a loss. We always do.

For a moment, though, we have the unusual sight and sound of harmony in Downing
Street. Sometimes it suits the Prime Minister to claim that Europe's proposed
constitution is a mere matter of tidying up the small print. Facing a new
opposite number across the dispatch box, he wants to look as patriotic as, say,
Clive Woodward.

How much he and his Chancellor have to boast about, what their authority may be
for giving Europe economics lectures - these are questions for another day. Our
economy is drifting towards the Continental model of high taxes and high
borrowing. Indeed, on some measures we have already passed them. The OECD
reckons our taxes are higher than Germany's and, while the rest of Europe
deregulates (or ignores the rules), each six-monthly Budget of Mr Brown's brings
in more complexity.

As for regulation, any CEO still awake at this stage must have scratched his
ears in disbelief. Could this be the control-freak of the Treasury speaking? Has
he left employers to administer his cherished credits, in their own time and at
their own expense? What are his proposals for curbing the Health and Safety
Executive, or reducing its appetite for putting businessmen in prison?

Another day, another speech from Gordon Brown. Book your seats on December 10 -
Pre-Budget Day - for the next one. As so often with this Chancellor, words and
figures do not agree.
[PS]City: [ES]

City Comment:

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                               4 of 10 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           November 23, 2003, Sunday

Stand up and vote for England

BYLINE: David Stenhouse

SECTION: Features; Ecosse; 4

LENGTH: 1129 words


Inspired by the new assemblies in Scotland and Wales, an English group feels
it's their turn next. David Stenhouse meets the Campaign for an English
Parliament

Saturdays are always busy at Conway Hall, a grubby meeting house tucked away in
a corner of London's Red Lion Square. The humanist women's group meets upstairs
at 11 in the morning; at noon the Troops Out Movement takes occupation of a room
along the corridor; and a "meeting for world revolution" is due to start
whenever the t'ai chi class have rolled up their mats.

Today, however, a new political force is gathering here, its identity hinted at
by the family car which sits by the kerb, two St George's Crosses lashed to its
roof.

This particular Saturday, Conway Hall is the venue for what is billed as the
first public meeting in 1,500 years devoted to the subject of England's future.
The Campaign for an English Parliament hopes that the event will be the start of
something big. There is seating for 350.

To this unpretentious hall, neglected English patriots have come from
Manchester, from Devon, from West Mercia and from Durham to prove that the Land
of Hope and Glory hasn't left its glory days behind it. Shabby and smart, posh
and poor, they are poring over photocopied booklets entitled England's Heroes
and leafing through the campaign newsletter, Think of England.

Michael Knowles is the mild- mannered former teacher who chairs the movement.
"We were formed in 1998 after devolution was introduced in Scotland," he
explains as the audience gathers. "It's a bit of a shock when you've been
brought up to believe that there'll always be an England, to realise that your
country no longer exists. Scotland and Wales have their own parliaments now, but
constitutionally and politically England isn't on the map."

"We think Scotland got an excellent deal," agrees Don Beadle, a CEP supporter.

"Financially, Scotland is better off than England and it's having a wonderful
time with its new parliament. There is a growing groundswell of opinion, of
people who share our views. Blair might be trying to ignore it but it is there."

In typically English fashion, the meeting starts bang on time. Scilla Cullen, a
member of the CEP's national council, explains why everyone has come. "The
people of England are the poor relations of Britain but we have no forum to
debate these issues. Why is it that Scotland and Wales are able to have their
own parliaments and not England?"

Over the next three hours the platform speakers roll out an extensive list of
grievances. The votes of Scottish MPs have imposed foundation hospitals on
England and Wales. English pensioners are discriminated against because the
Scottish parliament has voted for free care for the elderly; English students
studying in Wales have to pay higher tuition fees than Welsh students; at Keele
University students trying to set up an English society were banned on the
grounds of "tolerance".

"England," declares Christine Constable, the formidable spokesman for the
English Democrats, a new political party devoted to putting England first, "has
been reduced to an enfeebled jelly. While Wales and Scotland eat in the finest
restaurants, England is like a tramp living in the gutter and pressing its nose
against the glass."

But though the sentiments are heartfelt, and the crowd is so big that it spills
up into the balcony, Knowles and his colleagues have been disappointed by the
lack of interest shown by the political parties. Certain that their event would
command widespread interest the campaign sent a letter of invitation to every MP
and MEP representing an English seat.

But from that mailshot, only two politicians responded. Nigel Farrage, the UK
Independence party MEP, resplendent in gleaming pinstripes and sporting a
military coiffure, obliges with a barnstorming speech on the wrongs of the
European superstate. Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrat candidate for mayor of
London, speaks before lunch about a strategy to make the campaign's aims come
true.

In truth, the organisers cannot be too surprised by the fact they are low on the
list of professional politicians' priorities. While the Scottish Nats tootle
around in kilts and talk about their homeland's innate tradition of
egalitarianism, its equivalent "English nationalism" equates to "tattooed
football thug" in the minds of most casual observers.

The CEP is well aware of the problem and is desperate to wrestle the flag of St
George from the pudgy fingers of the yobs. If the audience for the meeting is
anything to go by that is one aim that the campaign has achieved. The crowd is
decent, well behaved and mostly elderly.

But though the campaigners are convinced that something has to change in
England's green and pleasant land, they're not sure exactly what it is. The CEP,
which currently draws its members from across the political spectrum, is
devoting its energies to defeating John Prescott's plan for regional assemblies
for England, but that can't keep them occupied for ever.

"We don't want to stand against candidates from other political parties,"
explains Knowles, himself a long-standing Labour supporter, "because we want the
support of the parties, and we won't get that if we stand against them."

Cullen, like other members, believes that the answer to their woes is in front
of their eyes, just across the border. At the climax of her speech, she quotes
from the Claim of Right for Scotland, the 1988 document which emerged out of
Scotland's constitutional convention. Except that, in a rhetorical flourish, she
substitutes the word "England" for "Scotland".

"England is a historic nation," she reads, then stops to make a confession. "The
first time I read that, in my bathroom at home, I feared that I would be branded
a 'fascist English nationalist' or a 'little Englander'."

Yet for all the passion, there seems to be a policy vacuum at the heart of the
campaign. Are these people really in favour of a separate English parliament,
which some members see sitting in York, not Westminster, or would they be happy
with something less? Can they command the support of significant sectors of
English society?

The notion that the English unicorn might follow the Scottish lion out of its
post-devolutionary darkness may not be as extreme as it first seems. On St
Andrew's night last year, John Swinney, the SNP leader, travelled to Manchester
to support English nationalism with a visit to the set of Coronation Street.
Perhaps he should be invited to give the keynote address at the CEP's next
meeting. At least these worthy Englishmen would be certain to get a reply.

David Stenhouse's, book On the Make -How the Scots took over London, is
published in May


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               5 of 10 DOCUMENTS

                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                               November 22, 2003

Parties are $ :5m richer

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 71 words


British National party £2,675

Conservative party £1,851,634

Co-operative party £137,064

Green party £13,271

Labour party £2,244,591

Legalise Cannabis Alliance £5,200

Liberal Democrats £661,010

The People's Alliance £115,088

Plaid Cymru £19,291

Scottish Green party £7,984

Scottish National party £90,890

Scottish Socialist party £45,306

UK Independence party £24,830


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               6 of 10 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           November 16, 2003, Sunday

MEPs boost pay with a spouse about the house

BYLINE: Gareth Walsh and Nina Goswami

SECTION: Home news; Eire News 18

LENGTH: 887 words


MANY of Britain's European MPs are secretly boosting their family incomes by
using public funds to employ their spouses as paid assistants.

Despite concerns over nepotism and potential abuse, one in five British members
of the European Parliament use at least some of their £100,400-a-year (E144,240)
office allowance to pay a husband or wife.

Almost half do not disclose the relationship in a public register aimed at
fostering greater transparency, according to research by The Sunday Times.

The issue was highlighted in Westminster last month when questions were raised
about Iain Duncan Smith, the former Tory leader. He employed his wife Betsy as a
secretary, despite claims that she was not doing enough work to justify her
salary.

The revelation of how widespread and potentially lucrative the practice has
become in Brussels is likely to lead to calls for more open disclosure, and
could renew demands to ban spouses from working for Euro politicians.

While only 6% of Westminster MPs employ a husband or wife, 20% of British MEPs
are known to have a spouse on their payroll.

Politicians in Brussels are also able to channel more cash into family coffers
than their Westminster counterparts. MPs are typically restricted to spending
£64,304 a year on staff, but there is no limit to how much of their annual
allowance an MEP can spend on family members.

While Westminster MPs must publicly declare names of all assistants, MEPs are
only obliged to reveal names of "accredited" assistants working for them in
Brussels, and not of staff in Britain. Some family ties are obscured by MEPs who
register wives as assistants using their maiden names.

Eleven MEPs, whose nationalities are not known, have sought to conceal the
identities of their accredited assistants on the grounds of privacy. The issue
is due to be debated in the parliament on Wednesday.

After reforms aimed at stopping abuse, MEPs must now produce contracts of
employment for their assistants and tax certificates proving they are paying
them the agreed salary. But the standard contract provided by the parliament
does not stipulate how many hours a week staff should work or even give details
of what jobs they are supposed to do, and there are no fixed salary levels.

If any of the office fund remains unclaimed at the end of the year, it is
retained by the parliament. One British MEP last week claimed that some
colleagues simply used the surplus to pay staff Christmas bonuses.

Previous attempts to ban MEPs from employing family members have been thrown out
by politicians.

In Ireland, at least one MEP employs family members on their Brussels staff.
Dana Rosemary Scallon, the former Eurovision winner who was elected as an
independent MEP for Connacht-Ulster in 1999, employs her brother John Brown as
her assistant.

Scallon was uncontactable, but Brown, whose name is on the register of
assistants, said: "In fairness, as an independent, who else is she going to get
to do it. It's different if you're a member of a party. She has to find someone
to assist her she can trust.

"If I wasn't capable of working with her and researching for her, getting her
the information she needs as a parliamentarian, I would not be working with her
irrespective of being family or not," said Brown, who was Scallon's election
campaign manager. "If it wasn't my sister, I wouldn't be doing it. The money
wouldn't pay you."

Among British members employing a spouse is Diana Wallis, the Liberal Democrat
group leader in Brussels. Because Wallis uses her maiden name, the relationship
with her husband, Stewart Arnold, is not obvious to anyone reading the register.

Wallis says she employs Arnold for his specialist knowledge in northern European
affairs.

Neil MacCormick, an SNP member whose wife Flora works full-time in his office as
one of five assistants, said it was a perfectly reasonable practice.

He said: "I think it should be properly done under conditions of better
transparency, and I think it is probably a mistake to have the rules we have
here, under which you declare only the assistants who work for you in the
parliament.

"I would resist a changeover so that it was illegal to employ a spouse, just
because of the other extreme advantages of being able to do it."

MacCormick refused, however, to reveal how much he pays his wife. Bill Miller, a
Scottish Labour MEP, who employs his wife Elizabeth, said: "I do not have a
problem with people employing members of their family as long as they are doing
their job."

Malcolm Harbour, Tory MEP for the West Midlands, employs his wife Penny as a
full-time assistant. Her name does not appear on the published list of
assistants because she is not based in Brussels.

Harbour said: "Frankly the situation is ridiculous at the moment, because it is
somehow felt that we are behaving improperly and abusing our secretarial
allowance when we are in fact doing the job properly.

None of the MEPs asked by The Sunday Times would reveal how much they paid their
spouse.

Nigel Farage, a UK Independence party MEP who opposes the use of spouses as
assistants, said: "The reason we need to have MEPs' interests laid out in front
of us is because the public no longer trusts us."

Additional reporting: Jan Battles.


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               7 of 10 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 13, 2003, Thursday

Counting the cost of EU membership

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 146 words

SIR - Lucy Powell provides the usual blend of misleading statistics and
unsubstantiated generalisations. She neglects to mention that 60 per cent of our
trade in services goes outside the EU, which, combined with the export of goods,
makes the balance close to 50 per cent between trade with the EU and the rest of
the world. Nor does she mention that we trade with the EU at a substantial
deficit.

Ms Powell suggests that membership gives us "more clout" in international trade
negotiations.

The reality is that we hand over our negotiating powers to the EU, which
negotiates what is best for the larger Continental countries. The accession
countries will sooner or later lose their enthusiasm, when they realise that
they have been conned by a deluge of EU propaganda.

Jeffrey Titford MEP (UKIP)

Chelmsford, Essex
[PS]Features [ES]

Letter to the Editor:

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                               8 of 10 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 10, 2003, Monday

Sometimes, you have to lose a job to find a voice

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: Features; 18

LENGTH: 1421 words


On Friday morning, Gillian and I went to Church House, Westminster, to attend
the Congress For Democracy's rally for a referendum; the MPs Sir Michael Spicer
and Austin Mitchell were sharing the chair. We went -and this should be treated
as a declaration of an interest -to listen to Annunziata Rees-Mogg, our youngest
daughter, who was speaking as chairman of Trust the People; that is, in effect,
the youth wing of the referendum movement. I am not impartial, but notoriously a
proud papa, second in this role only to Gordon Brown. I thought her speech was
brilliant -which it was.

She followed a speech by Iain Duncan Smith. This was the day after he had left
the Tory leadership -he had originally accepted the invitation to speak as the
Leader of the Opposition. Leaders who are freed from office often speak better
because they are no longer chained by their responsibilities. That notably
happened in the cases of Harold Macmillan, Ted Heath and John Major.

The same thing happened on Friday with Mr Duncan Smith. He has not suddenly
become a gifted orator, like William Hague or Michael Howard, but he spoke from
the heart, without any of the Blackpool artifice, and was rewarded with two
non-artificial standing ovations. It was a very good speech.

There is, however, more to it than that. By removing him, his political enemies
have made him a hero. The Conservative Party has elected five successive leaders
- Margaret Thatcher, John Major, William Hague, Iain Duncan Smith and Michael
Howard -because they were more Eurosceptic than the alternative. They were, in
succession, more Eurosceptic than Ted Heath, Michael Heseltine, Kenneth Clarke,
Kenneth Clarke and Kenneth Clarke. Yet Iain Duncan Smith is unique in one
respect.

He has always been more concerned about British independence than about the
Conservative Party.

As Mr Duncan Smith reminded his audience, he made his maiden speech in 1992 on
the subject of Maastricht, saying that he would not vote for the treaty. No one
questioned the Euroscepticism of Margaret Thatcher or William Hague, but even
they were widely regarded, particularly by Eurosceptics outside the Conservative
Party, as Conservative politicians first and Eurosceptics second. Iain Duncan
Smith was able to say on Friday: "From Maastricht to the present day, I have
always been prepared to fight for our country's independence -a fight we must
win." That won him his first standing ovation.

The movement for a constitutional referendum is cross-party and cross European.
In Britain the Conservative and the Liberal Democrat parties are committed to a
referendum, but so are many people in the Labour Party itself. Labour supporters
are probably a growing number, and have been given great psychological support
by Gordon Brown's recent attack on the draft constitution plans for a federal
Europe.

The United Kingdom Independence Party, which represents the extreme reaction to
Brussels power, is also in favour of a referendum.

All these non-Tory groups find it much easier to support Iain Duncan Smith as
the champion of British independence than as leader of a Conservative Party
which they have been fighting for years on other issues. They still see the
Conservatives as the party which took Britain into the exchange-rate mechanism,
with disastrous consequences, and then ratified the Maastricht treaty, using the
power of the whips to crush even Margaret Thatcher's demand for a referendum.
These non Tory Eurosceptics do not trust the Tories. So long as he was leader of
the Tories, they did not wholly trust Mr Duncan Smith. When the Tories threw him
out of the leadership, they deprived him of a source of power, but gave him a
new source of influence. He is far more acceptable as Mr Referendum than he ever
was when he was still leader of the party that signed Maastricht.

This is certainly significant outside the Conservative Party. My own calculation
is that there are about five million floating voters who hold broadly
Eurosceptic views and are strongly in favour of the referendum. If Tony Blair
continues to reject a referendum, Europe will become a central issue at the next
general election; perhaps the election itself may become a referendum on a
referendum.

Iain Duncan Smith may have been repudiated as the party leader, but that has
actually strengthened his following among these floating pro-referendum voters.

They know he is on their side.

It is no less significant inside the Conservative Party. Michael Howard was
loyal to Iain Duncan Smith as leader and Mr Duncan Smith has given him his
support. Most Conservatives do see Michael Howard as a convincing Eurosceptic;
in his Blackpool speech he made an emphatic declaration of the need for a
referendum.

However, there is some unease even among the Tory Eurosceptics. They greatly
value Michael Howard's experience and ability. They want the party to be united.
But they do not want the party to be united at their expense, let alone at the
expense of their European policy. They know that Europhiles, who had never
wanted Mr Duncan Smith, helped to vote him out. They know that his Eurosceptic
majority in the constituencies was overturned, with the help of the old
pro-Maastricht brigade. They feel bruised.

In the past six years, Kenneth Clarke has always been the man that Conservative
leaders had to reckon with, because he was the leader of the Europhile group, of
the remaining supporters of Maastricht. When people talked of divisions in the
party they were sometimes confused about the actual policies of the modernisers.

To the constituency activists both William Hague and Mr Duncan Smith seemed to
be modernising the party. They did not altogether understand what Michael
Portillo was seeking to achieve. They saw quite clearly that Kenneth Clarke had
a European vision of Britain's destiny; that he was the heir to Ted Heath's
European idealism. They came to reject that, by a large majority, but they did
not cease to respect Kenneth Clarke.

We now have to work with a new Conservative geometry. Michael Portillo is going.

That is the loss of a very able, indeed fascinating, man, but it makes Michael
Howard's task easier. So long as Mr Portillo was committed to active politics,
his supporters regarded him as the king over the water. Sometimes he seemed to
encourage that, sometimes he discouraged it, but the Portillistas made the work
of successive leaders infinitely more difficult. It was a continuous
distraction, and it is now being withdrawn.

Kenneth Clarke will be no threat to Michael Howard. He wants the Conservatives
to do well; he knows he cannot alter the constituencies' attitudes to Europe. He
has many friends -he is an extremely likeable man -but no longer any power base.

With the intake of a couple of past allies of Mr Portillo and Mr Clarke, Michael
Howard should be able to present a broad-based and united Shadow Cabinet. Mr
Howard will have to reckon with Iain Duncan Smith on Europe, in the same way as
his predecessors have had to reckon with Kenneth Clarke, but more so because he
represents a majority. In forming his Shadow Cabinet, which will be announced
this week, the new leader cannot afford to appear to be moving away from the
Duncan Smith policies on Europe, particularly the Prague speech -"yes" to a
referendum and "no" to the draft constitution. He has a job of reassurance to
do; the membership of his front bench will be closely scrutinised by the
Eurosceptics, both inside and outside the party.

If Mr Howard welcomes the opportunity it can give him real benefit. His
experience of the leadership and of rejection have matured Mr Duncan Smith as a
leader and as a speaker. He can now reach a level of Eurosceptic opinion which
he would not have been able to touch before, and Mr Howard cannot touch as the
leader of the Conservative Party.

There is disquiet about a possible weakening of European policy in the
electorate and in the Tory party itself. Yet, so long as Iain Duncan Smith
continues to give the Tory policy on Europe his seal of approval, Eurosceptics
are likely to accept that as valid. There is an irony in this -losing the
leadership has transformed him from a party leader in trouble to a strong leader
of opinion. It is an irony that Mr Howard can use to his own advantage if he is
wise enough to do so. The Tories now have a great battle for British
independence from European federalism to fight, as Iain Duncan Smith told his
audience on Friday.


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               9 of 10 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            November 9, 2003, Sunday

FRANK TALK AND NO PUNCHES PULLED;
 LENNOX LEWIS' FORMER MANAGER IS TUB-THUMPING ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL.

BYLINE: ALAN HUBBARD Fighting man: When it comes to world titles, boxing is in a
mess. It needs to be sorted,' says Frank Maloney ROBERT HALLAM

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1009 words


Anyone who thinks sport and politics do not belong in the same arena should
spend a couple of hours being ear-bashed by Frank Maloney.

London's black-cab drivers, who tend to employ their rear-view mirrors as
megaphones, are not in the same league as the little man from Del Boy territory
when he elects to opine on matters which may range from the psyche of Lennox
Lewis to the foibles of Ken Livingstone.

Currently the volume is turned up because Maloney, the ex-manager of Lewis and
putative mayor of London, has a book to sell, and it's not a bad one, either. No
Baloney, it declares on the dust jacket of the biography (Mainstream, pounds
15.99), and while this may smack a little of the essential hype of his
profession, it is a revealing, well-chronicled read about the life and
frequently troubled times of Maloney himself and the wheelings and dealings of
big-time boxing. It turns over a few stones and fascinatingly opens up some of
the ledgers.

For some time before its publication there had been gymnasium rumours about
sensational revelations from the court of King Lennox, in which Maloney garnered
as much nose-tapping inside gen as Paul Burrell did from Diana. Lewis's learned
friends insisted on scrutinising the proofs, but Maloney claims there were no
enforced cuts. "I didn't set out to badmouth anybody, I just wanted to tell the
truth about my 12 years in the Lennox Lewis team. I wasn't going to say bad
things about him because I have no reason to. There may have been a few
contractual things that they didn't want made public, and stuff that went on
behind the scenes, but I just wanted to be open about it."

Theirs was a Little and Large act which ended on an unfunny punchline, but
Maloney's counterattack is aimed not so much at the man he nursed to become
Britain's first world heavyweight champion of the 20th century but those camp
followers he believes turned Lewis against him.

"I was amazed at some of the things I've seen in boxing and those who get
involved in it. How egos become such a big thing and people start believing
their own hype. I tried to get it spot-on."

However, one chapter of the biography's serialisation in The Sun was pulled -
because it contained comments about Frank Bruno's ex-wife, who spat in Maloney's
face following the fight with Lewis, and was due to be published on the day the
newspaper had signed the woman they billed as "Loyal Laura" to give an insight
into her husband's mental anguish. Maloney says: "I found her very unladylike,
unpleasant and abusive."

The Peckham-born Maloney, 50, has moved on to become a partner with Frank Warren
in their ever-expanding Sports Network empire, managing and promoting some of
Britain's best young fighters. He is also embarking on a couple of political
campaigns, one in boxing and the other which he hopes will result in an opponent
in the red corner getting a bloody nose.

His boxing battle is aimed at eliminating the titular confusion that has
bedevilled the sport. "When it comes to world titles, boxing is in a mess. It
needs to be sorted. Ideally, there should be only one governing body, like Fifa
in football. They say it would be impossible to bring this about, but I don't
see why not. All it takes is for the world's top promoters and TV networks to
get together and say, This is what we want, and to hell with the alphabet boys'.
Who needs these sanctioning bodies anyway? All they do is take money from the
sport. Their sanction fees are just unbelievable. The money Lennox spent on them
probably could solve the famine problems of a Third World nation. People are
getting fed up.

"I noticed that Sky now don't even bother to announce some of these lesser
labels as world championship fights. If I had a fighter again at that level, I
would say to them: Stick your title. We're just going to fight the best out
there and call them world championship fights'."

Some may say that he has less chance of winning that one than becoming mayor of
London. But Maloney is nothing if not sanguine, which is why that dreadful Union
Jack suit has been sponged and pressed ready for the hustings. He is standing
for the United Kingdom Independent Party (Ukip), which sounds rather like one of
those boxing prefixes he derides. It also sounds suspiciously BNP-ish, so is he,
er, of the far- right tendency? (After all, he does support Millwall.) "Nah, no
chance. Anyone who knows me knows I wouldn't have anything to do with that lot.
Sure, I'm a patriot and I'm not particularly pro-Europe but that's as far as it
goes. We have many ethnic minorities in the party and, anyway, how could I be
confused with the BNP when I have three black guys on my campaign team?

"Listen, I really think I can win it, and I have to believe that. Self- belief
has always been one of my great strengths. London is in such chaos at the
moment. It needs sorting. Look at some of the things Livingstone does and gets
away with. I haven't got a lot of time for politicians. People talk about
boxing, but what about politics? That's a really dirty business. There's so much
corruption there. I've always found that when you talk to politicians they won't
look you straight in the eye. You can't believe what they are telling you. I've
already started making a few speeches. You are judged on what you say, and I'll
be promising to deliver on my policies."

These, he says, include law and order, improved transportation, scrapping the
congestion charge, stopping the sale of playing fields and full support for
London's Olympic bid. "But I don't believe Londoners should have to pay for the
Games through their taxes, because it is Britain that will benefit from them,
not just London."

Maloney threatened to stand as an independent last time, but did not go through
with it because he was told he would have no chance when Livingstone quit
Labour. Now, he says, it is different, because the mayor is ready for taking,
reeling on the ropes like a battered fighter. "And that's not baloney." 'Course
not, Frank.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                               10 of 10 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                November 3, 2003

SCANDAL OF NAZI POLICE

BYLINE: By John Chapman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 7

LENGTH: 780 words


SCORES of police officers are paid-up members of the farright British National
Party, it w as claimed last night.

The shocking revelation prompted anti-Nazi campaigners to call for members of
the force to be banned from belonging to extremist organisations.

Simon Darby, a councillor and the BNP's West Midlands regional organiser, claims
that up to 12 officers from West Midlands Police have joined his party's ranks
in Birmingham.

Disturbingly, he revealed this w as part of a nationwide trend and thought many
more officers supported the party "behind closed doors".

He said: "There are a similar number of police officers in the BNP based in the
North-west of England as well as London."

Weyman Bennett, national organiser of the Anti-Nazi League, said: "We intend to
expose officers w ho are members of right-wing organisations.

"We want a clause introduced into officers' contracts which prohibits them from
becoming members of these groups."

Meanwhile a shocking internal report alleged yesterday that the Metropolitan
Police force allowed a racist culture to develop unchecked in its ranks, with
black and A sian officers facing insults, discrimination and intimidation by
white colleagues. The news comes just days after BBC1 documentary The Secret
Policeman exposed racism in three police forces and resulted in seven officers
being suspended.

Mr Darby, the BNP councillor for Dudley Metropolitan Council also revealed that
a former West Midlands Police inspector is running as a BNP candidate in next
year's Euro elections.

He said: "There are between six and 12 police officers serving within West
Midlands Police who are members of the BNP. They want to remain anonymous
because if anyone found out they could lose their jobs. After what happened to
the officers in The Secret Policeman, it's not worth the risk.

"We've even got a retired police inspector from the West Midlands who is among
our ranks. John Phazey was a distinguished officer who has joined our party and
has applied to become a BNP candidate in the European elections."

Last week, Mr Phazey, from Sutton Coldfield, Birmingham, told of his time with
West Midlands Police.

Mr Phazey, who retired from the force after 30 years' service, said he routinely
heard officers using derogatory terms for Asian and black people.

As a former senior officer, he helped police during the Handsworth riots in the
early Eighties. He insisted that although he heard name-calling while in the
police force, he did not regard it as racist behaviour. He added: "It didn't
mean any more than someone saying Paddy for an Irishman or Jerry for a German.

"It was the language of workingclass blokes. It was never malicious.

It was just jokes in the canteen.

You'll get that anywhere when you have men in their 20s and 30s together."

Mr Phazey, who had a stint with the Referendum Party and ran as a UK
Independence Party candidate in the 2001 General Election, claims he is one of
the more "moderate" members of the BNP.

"Nick Griffin (the BNP party leader) has strong views on the coloured community,
but I don't share those fully, " he said. "I'm not racist. I joined the BNP
because they want out of Europe - I believe in England for the English - and
they don't promote homosexuality as being normal."

A spokesman for West Midlands Police said yesterday: "It is impossible for us to
confirm or disprove the claim that a small number of un-named officers in this
force are BNP members.

"Police officers are not required by law to disclose affiliation to political
parties and the BNP is a lawful organisation. At the same time we are quite
clear that racism has no part in the police service and will not be tolerated.

"West Midlands Police is committed to equality, honesty and fairness in
everything we do and, while there is still work to be done, we have already
achieved much."

Kirk Dawes, chairman of West Midlands Police Black Police Association, said he
was concerned that BNP members were serving among the force's ranks.

"There is a big difference between patriotism and racism on the far-right, " he
said. "The police have to serve everyone and we need to provide a fair,
equitable service."

Meanwhile, it emerged that a shocking report by the Metropolitan Police Black
Police Association has been handed to force commissioner Sir John Stevens.

It alleges that the force allowed a racist culture to develop unchecked within
its ranks.

It also says that the Met has not done enough to eradicate racism, has a poor
image with black and Asian people, and often approaches grievances from ethnic
minority staff with "apathy".

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
