
                                1 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 30, 2003, Tuesday

European Commission fraud reports

SECTION: Features; 21

LENGTH: 292 words


From Mr Jeffrey Titford, MEP for Eastern Region (UK Independence Party)

Sir, I was one of the six MEPs who felt it necessary to protest at the excessive
security employed by the European Commission in releasing three reports on fraud
at Eurostat (details, September 26) by wearing white gags over our mouths.

These reports expose grotesque levels of fraud and corruption in Eurostat,
which, in blunt terms, mean the large-scale misappropriation of taxpayers'
money. As a member of the European Parliament's Budgetary Control Committee, I
was entitled to have sight of them but, in order to do so, was forced to sign
(under protest) a declaration promising not to reveal the contents of the
reports.

Furthermore, we had to present ourselves at a particular room late at night,
where we were frisked for cameras, mobile phones and notepads. We were then
granted the opportunity to read the reports under the watchful supervision of
several security guards.

That these reports are not being published so that everybody can read them is
simply outrageous; after all, we are the ones paying for the investigation and
for the fraud out of our taxes.

The European Commission must take responsibility for this mess. Its plea of
ignorance of fraud at Eurostat amounts to an admission of incompetence.

Commissioners have failed to notice a multimillion-euro fraud taking place right
under their noses.

The European Union has once again made a mockery of its boasts about
transparency and zero tolerance of fraud and corruption. The cultures of secrecy
and graft live on.

Yours faithfully, JEFFREY TITFORD

(Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities), 145 New London Road,
Chelmsford, Essex CM2 0QT.

September 25.


LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                                2 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               September 28, 2003

LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 49 words


SURELY everyone realises that if homes are taxed, those who do not have the
income to pay will end up having their homes repossessed by the Government?

Many people cannot afford to pay council tax, so you can guess how many would
lose their homes.

A Reid, UK Independence Party member

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                                3 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 27, 2003, Saturday

MEA CULPA: YOU MAY BE RIGHT, BUT YOU MIGHT BE WRONG

BYLINE: GUY KELENY

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 671 words


In a tone of sympathy and regret, Simon Lawrence writes from East Anglia to
point out that my "praiseworthy" attempts to explain the distinction between
"may" and "might" seem to have had "only limited success". Quite. Mr Lawrence
encloses a cutting of a picture caption published after the Brent East
by-election: "Tony Blair backed the unsuccessful Labour candidate but an ethnic
minority choice may have done better."

"May" is always in the present or the future. If you are talking about a
possibility that existed only in the past, but has now closed off, it has to be
"might". In this case, an ethnic minority candidate might have done better, but
they did not pick one. A speaker who does not yet know the result of the
election could say, "They may have done better." And if they pick an ethnic
minority candidate next time, then they may do better. Which bit of that is
difficult to understand?

Then along came this in Tuesday's paper: "Mr Hoon conceded that with hindsight'
some decisions may have been different, but he insisted they would have had no
material effect on the handling of Dr Kelly's case." The weird bit is that there
is no problem with "would have had"; no tendency to write "will have had" here.
But somehow "might" has arbitrarily turned into "may".

Perhaps the confusion arises because "might" frequently relates to the future,
where it expresses a degree of likelihood greater than "could" but less than
"may". Are you going shopping tomorrow? I will. I may. I might. I could.
Consider the different degrees of certainty expressed by those four answers. But
all that is another story. "May" just cannot be used of the past. Mr Lawrence
goes on: "I'm afraid that this is virtually a lost cause." I hope not. The loss
of "might" as the past tense of "may" would leave the language poorer.

Mystery at the polls: The result from Brent East a week ago came too late for
Friday's paper, at least for most of us. The last edition of the paper reached
28,000 readers in London. Not bad, but only a fraction of the readership. By
Saturday morning the assumption seemed to be that everybody knew what had
happened and two pages were devoted to exhaustive interpretation of what it
meant. Between one thing and another we forgot to publish the full tabulated
result on Saturday. I am cross that I had to go to the BBC website to find out
about the reassuringly poor showing of the UK Independence Party and the
cheerful news that the Monster Raving Loonies are still in business and managed
to attract 59 votes.

Language lesson: Newspapers should print swearwords and blasphemies only when
really necessary, but when they print them they should print them. Nothing
patronises the reader more than an outbreak of old-maidish asterisks. Tuesday
morning was such an occasion. To appreciate what went on in Downing Street
during the Kelly affair, and the kind of people who rule the country, you have
to catch the full flavour of Alastair Campbell's now notorious diary entry; the
rank relish with which he anticipates that exposing Dr Kelly as the BBC's source
will "fuck Gilligan".

Only three national newspapers treated their readers as grown-ups. They were The
Independent, the Financial Times and The Guardian. All the others resorted to a
breathless flutter of asterisks. Particularly strange was The Sun, which printed
the prim and proper "f***" on page two, face to face with its customary page
three illustration of a young woman shamelessly wearing nothing but knickers and
a fetching smile. Figure out the mentality of that if you can.

Trying to be funny: A story about London cabs in American cities appeared last
Saturday under the headline Sorry, guv, but I don't go south of the Mississippi.
That is quite an amusing headline provided you don't know the first thing about
the geography of North America. If you do, it is simply stupid. The first thing
about the geography of North America is that the Mississippi (unlike the Thames)
flows from north to south.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                                4 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 16, 2003, Tuesday

A welcome for Sweden's 'no' vote

SECTION: Features; 19

LENGTH: 135 words


From Mr Graham Booth, MEP for South West Region (United Kingdom Independence
Party)

Sir, Congratulations to the peoples of Sweden for saying "no" to the euro, thus
maintaining control of their interest rates and their economy.

Romano Prodi claims that Sweden will "lose influence" in the EU as a result of
the vote (report, September 15). What influence? According to the Maastricht
treaty "the governments of Member States undertake...not to seek to influence
the members of the decision-making bodies of the ECB (European Central Bank)".
Perhaps he can explain how the Swedish Government would have been able to break
the rules.

Yours sincerely,

GRAHAM BOOTH

(Group for a Europe of Democracies

and Diversities),

41 Oyster Bend,

Paignton, Devon TQ4 6NL.

September 15.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                                5 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 15, 2003

Euro referendum: 'This shows the euro is untenable in Britain'

BYLINE: Alexis Akwagyiram

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 673 words


No camp:

George Eustice, director of the no campaign against British entry, said: "This
was an extremely good result for us and one that we are celebrating. It should
come as a warning for Tony Blair as it highlights the huge obstacles he will
face.

"The margin was far wider than we expected - the no voters were obviously out in
force. Sweden has never been as firmly opposed to the euro as Britain.

"If you cannot win a referendum in Sweden, there is no chance of the yes camp
winning one in this country."

Outlining the reasons for his opposition to the single currency, he added:
"Britain does not need to be in the euro to be part of Europe. The advantage of
not joining is that we keep control of our own economic policy. That is far more
important than the minor advantage of exchange rate stability if we joined."

Mark Croucher, a spokesman for the UK Independence party, said: "The Swedish
people have made a very sensible decision. The only down side is that there will
probably be another vote there in the near future despite the no vote.

"Sweden was the most pro-euro country of the Eurosceptic countries. They were
much warmer towards it than the British or Danes. The yes campaign in Sweden was
well funded by the European commission and their government. Their inability to
produce a yes vote shows that the ordinary voter is well aware of the
destruction that the euro has brought across the rest of Europe."

Assessing the impact the Swedish vote is likely to have on this country, he
added: "This shows that calls for the euro in Britain are untenable. British
voters would follow Sweden's example if there was a referendum here given the
considerable Eurosceptic feeling in this country."

Lord Lamont, former chancellor of the exchequer, who went to Sweden to campaign
against the euro, said: "I am delighted the Swedish people have kept their nerve
even after the tragic events of last week.

"Tony Blair should draw the lesson and should shelve all plans for a referendum
in Britain."

Yes camp

Chris Bryant, chairman of the Labour Movement for Europe, said: "Obviously we
would have preferred Sweden to have said yes, but it was always going to be an
uphill struggle. The timing of the vote was not great as France and Germany have
had economic problems that they are only now coming out of."

In an attempt to explain the result, Mr Bryant said: "Scandinavia is a very
Eurosceptic region - Norway and Denmark have both voted against the euro.

"And the Swedish government was split on the issue. Five cabinet members were
publicly against the euro. I can't think of a single cabinet member who would do
the same here.

"This does not spell the end of the yes campaign in this country. Sweden is very
different, both economically and politically."

He added: "This result will make it more difficult to win people's hearts and
minds.

"What we have learned is that the yes campaign should not be about grand
political statements. It needs to focus on ordinary people and the way in which
the euro will affect the price of their goods."

Graham Watson, the leader of the UK's Liberal Democrats in the European
parliament, also insisted that euro membership was "almost inevitable for
Sweden, as well as for the UK and Denmark.

"Sweden has voted no because the Swedish government failed to inspire people
about the wider benefits of European unity.

"This is a lesson for Tony Blair: continued self-exclusion from the euro will
bring a loss of investment and political influence and increased vulnerability
to market turmoil.

"Eventual membership is almost inevitable - sadly the Swedish will discover that
the hardest way ."

A spokesman for Britain in Europe said: "Whatever British anti-euro campaigners
claim, this result will have little long-term effect.

"When we have a referendum, the British people will make their decision for
British reasons. In the meantime we will continue to pay a rising price for our
isolation from the euro."


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                                6 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 13, 2003, Saturday

LIB DEMS CLOSING ON LABOUR IN SYMBOLIC BATTLE FOR LONDON SEAT

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT Sarah Teather, with her party
leader, Charles Kennedy, is pushing Labour hard in Brent East Toby Madden

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 967 words


AARON BARSCHAK, dressed in Hasidic Jewish garb and a bright red military jacket,
is telling jokes outside Willesden Green Tube station. The comedian, best known
for his unauthorised appearance at Prince William's 21st birthday party, is
making his first foray into national politics.

He is flanked by Rainbow George Weiss, a pro-peace candidate, and Fawzi Ibrahim,
a more serious anti-war candidate whose slogan is "Give Blair a slap"

The Brent East by-election, to be held on Thursday, was prompted by the death in
June of the Labour MP Paul Daisley. It has attracted several fringe candidates.
But there is serious business afoot in the north London constituency. Labour is
facing its first electoral test since the Hutton inquiry opened, and is having
to work hard to retain first place.

The Liberal Democrats are snapping at their heels, while the Tories are fighting
to avoid the humiliation of being pushed into third place.

Labour's man in Brent East is Robert Evans, already an MEP. Defending a Labour
majority of 13,000, he is glued to a posse of dark-suited, square- spectacled
minders and is keen for their approval before deciding whether to have his
photograph taken. "I think that's been agreed," he says.

Mr Evans is eager to convince sceptical journalists that local issues, and not
the David Kelly affair or the war in Iraq, are exercising local people. "Tree
roots are more in people's minds than international affairs," he claims.

With him is Charles Clarke, the burly Education Secretary, who is no stranger to
by- election scuffles. He is protective of his timid-looking charge. "Robert is
politically committed to education in a way that many Labour MPs aren't," he
tells a classroom of college students, unaware perhaps that he has just insulted
several parliamentary colleagues.

Mr Clarke is one of a string of MPs who have visited the constituency to shore
up Mr Evans. In the morning Gordon Brown toured a hospital with Mr Evans and
Hilary Armstrong, the Chief Whip, helped him knock on doors. The jovial MPs
Fraser Kemp and Martin Salter have turned out to chat up Labour voters and make
sure they do not, as predicted, stay at home.

In the Ceili on the Green Irish pub there are blank looks at the mention of a
by-election. Joe McBride, 42, says nobody he knows is voting. "Tony Blair came
in six years ago, I liked the man then but now he has put my taxes up. Now I
haven't got a job. I'm voting for none of them," he says. "It is because of this
war people aren't voting."

Labour's candidate may look on-message and Blairite, but he has a guilty secret.
Before being selected, Mr Evans opposed the war on Iraq. Perhaps this is why his
entourage don't let him out of their sight.

"I didn't support the military action," he admits, while Mr Clarke is distracted
by television journalists. "I wanted more time for the weapons inspectors." It
is surprising that Mr Evans isn't making more of his anti-war credentials given
the depth of feeling in the constituency. Fifty per cent of voters belong to an
ethnic minority and the war is a thorny issue.

At Sunrise Halal butchers in Willesden, two Pakistani pensioners describe why
they abandoned the party after a lifetime voting Labour. "What Blair is doing is
really rubbish. He is behaving like a dictator," said M Shah, 65. "I voted for
them before but not now, they went to Iraq for oil, killing thousands of
innocent people. "

His friend Shafiq Hussain, a butcher who moved to Britain in 1965, is equally
angry about the war. "Since we came here we supported Labour but now we are
going to vote Liberal Democrat," he said.

Mr Hussain has just missed Charles Kennedy, who has been touring the
constituency for the fourth time with the Liberal Democrat candidate, Sarah
Teather. Ms Teather, 29, a policy analyst with a cancer charity, is swiftly
climbing the opinion polls. William Hill is now offering odds that the Liberal
Democrats are joint favourites with Labour to win the seat.

Hundreds of Liberal Democrat activists have migrated to Brent to fold and
deliver thousands of leaflets.

The opposition parties are pouring scorn on Ms Teather's local credentials,
pointing out that she is an Islington councillor. But she brushes off
accusations of opportunism and says that she can take the seat. "If we win here
it will be one of the most significant by- election gains for the party since
Bermondsey," she says, referring back to 1983.

Uma Fernandes, the Tory candidate, who lives and works in Brent, has decamped
from HQ to the neighbouring pub. The nurse from Mauritius seems to care
genuinely about local issues. Even her political opponents admit that Ms
Fernandes is "delightful." The party is the problem, they say.

While handing out leaflets she encounters an elderly Irishman who says he has
supported the Tories all his life. "Bless you," she says, and clutches his arm
appreciatively.

The local estate agents are also voting Tory, but are reluctant to go on the
record in case "someone throws a brick through the window". On the posters
outside Ms Fernandes' headquarters, the word Conservative is nowhere to be seen.

THE CANDIDATES

Robert Evans (Labour), Uma Fernandes (Conservative), Sarah Teather (Liberal
Democrat), Noel Lynch (Green), Harold Immanuel (Independent Labour), Iris Cremer
(Socialist Labour Party), Brian Butterworth (Socialist Alliance), Alan Howling
Lord Hope (Monster Raving Loony Party), Brian Hall (UK Independence Party),
Khidori Fawzi Ibrahim (Public Services Not War), Rainbow George Weiss
(WWW.XAT.ORG), Kelly McBride (Independent), Winston McKenzie (Independent), Neil
Walsh (Independent), Jiten Bardwaj, Aaron Barschak

2001 result:

Labour 18,325

Conservative 5,278

Lib Dem 3,065

Turnout 49.9%

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                                7 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           September 7, 2003, Sunday

A LIFE IN FULL: STILL LOOKING FOR A NEW ENGLAND;
 DURING THE THATCHER YEARS - THE ERA OF RAMPANT INDIVIDUALISM - BILLY

BYLINE: COLE MORETON

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 4869 words


How do you tell when an old Leftie has sold out? He lets the local council
stickhis name on a street sign. That was the curious, gleeful, tabloid logic of
The Sun four years ago when Billy Bragg had the unusual honour of seeing a
cul-de-sac named after him. It's hardly a street at all though, Bragg Close,
more a car park round the back of a dismal pub. There are half-decent public
houses among the industrial estates and factories of Barking and Dagenham, the
neon-haunted suburbs along the A13 where the singer grew up, but the one on the
corner of Bragg Close is not among them. The floor is sticky, the furniture
beaten up, the door of the toilet is jammed open allowing the scent of
disinfectant and urine to seep out into the saloon. The pub is out of bitter.
It's out of nuts. And since a shaven-headed man whose fat used to be allmuscle
has come into the bar and approached the wiry, mean-eyed gent who just looked me
up and down like a hangman guessing weight, and kissed his hand as though paying
deference to a mafia don, I'm out of here.

If this is selling out, Billy did not get much for his soul. Half a dozen
modernredbrick homes cluster together in Bragg Close, a drunken hurl from a
kebab shopand the Bengali curry house. Not far away is the sprawling Ford
production complex he fled from as a young man. Still, there are hardly any
other living people who have London streets named after them - Nelson Mandela is
the only other who comes to mind - and his listing in the A-Z is testament to
Billy Bragg's fame and the place he occupies in the national heart, as a sort of
talismanic good bloke. Even if you don't like the music, or find the socialism
implausible, it's nice to know that someone cares, so quite a few people with
residual social consciences are fond of Billy.

And Billy does care, enough to have an answer ready when I ask if he has been
back to Bragg Close since the nameplate went up in 1999. We are a dozen miles
from Barking when I put this question, sitting in a rooftop bar close to
Broadcasting House looking down at the other London he has come to know, a city
of fine churches, bookshops, recording studios, cheery, beery music venues and
nice hotels. He looks comfortable and content in his short-sleeved shirt, having
come from sitting for a portrait painter. Any other 45-year-old singer, writer
and broadcaster, who had escaped to live by the sea in the West Country might
shake his head and admit that no, he didn't visit Barking much any more - but
Billy Bragg knows good things and good people can be found in unfashionable
places and that art belongs to the people. Anyway his mumstill lives there, and
so does his brother. So he says: "Yeah, quite often."

What about Bragg Close then? "Sometimes." He might be thinking of the fuss they
make of him, and the absurdity of celebrity, but I am thinking of the shadows
inthe car park and the slashed seats in the pub, as he smiles a tactful smile.

"I tend not to linger."

MY HEAD WAS under a blanket when I first heard Billy Bragg. His voice was tinny
because it was coming from a battered radio cassette recorder. It was the third
of August 1983. (I know this because someone has taken the trouble to catalogue
and post up on the internet the date and song listing for every session ever
recorded for the John Peel Show on Radio 1, once again proving that the net
catches some odd fish.) In those days (or nights) before ubiquitous lightweight
earphones the blanket was the precaution of choice for teenage boys who wanted
to feed their hormonal rage by listening to industrial noise terror without
parental banging on the walls. The BSF cassette with the yellow jacket was lost
long ago, but the sound of a nasal oik thrashing the life out of a song called
"Fear is a Man's Best Friend" made a lasting impression. He sounded like he came
from just down the road, which was true, butthere was a tenderness and good
humour in his rough and ready performance of a pretty bleak song that made me
smile. So I got hold of a copy of the DIY album he had recorded on borrowed time
in a studio, Life's a Riot with Spy vs Spy, and found my way to the 100 Club in
Oxford Street where he was supporting a band called The Opposition. They were
big in France, but there were no more than a dozen of us in the audience, and
the main act's punky pop was far less appealing than the short set Bragg
performed on his battered electric guitar and busker's amplifier. He was an
antidote to New Romanticism who would turn up and support anybody, anywhere, for
a few bob; a one-man Clash,and deeply unfashionable.

He was 25, I was 16 but pretending to be older. After the gig we drank foul
coffee from polystyrene cups in a late-night sandwich bar and he told me how he
had bought himself out of the Tank Regiment for pounds 175. I wrote a little
piece about him for the Walthamstow Guardian, but nobody really believed you
could be a star withoutmascara and a floppy fringe. The songs, however, spoke
for themselves: bittersweet ballads like "The Man in The Iron Mask" and "The
Milkman of Human Kindness" told what it was to be an ordinary bloke struggling
with love, their sensitive lyrics set to a single clanging guitar. Later he
would add direct and unapologetically political songs like "There is Power in a
Union". But the best material - "A NewEngland" for example - combined both
approaches to resonate with young men and women desperate to avoid having their
hearts broken, either by lovers or the failure of their dreams of a new
Jerusalem. All this was available on vinyl that he demanded his record company
sell for dole queue prices.

The debut album was re-released on a new indie label called Go! Discs the
following year, well received by critics who wanted something a little less
artificial than Modern Romance, and sold enough copies to get in to the Top 30.
The follow-up, Brewing Up With Billy Bragg went Top 20 and he appeared in the
Smash Hits annual, declaring that Spandau Ballet were his greatest inspiration,
"because I saw themand thought surely someone can do better than that". His
growing fame was slightly alarming to the fans he had picked up at those
countless gigs, in the days when his constant friend Porky the Pig had yet to
become the comedian Phil Jupitus and his driver Andy Kershaw hardly dared to
dream that he would be a Radio 1 DJ. But it was still a cult thing for a while
in 1984, a cause with strident integrity as Billy became an ever-present at
rallies and benefits in aid of the striking miners. Wherever there were donkey
jackets and collecting buckets there was Billy the working-class dreamer, poet
of protest, bard of Barking. Listening to him, you could almost believe it was
possible to win. By the time the rest of the nation noticed Billy Bragg we knew
that had been an illusion.

Greed was good in the spring of 1985, Margaret Thatcher was in her pomp, and
theminers had just been crushed. Top of the Pops was stuffed with pop tarts
prancing in frilly shirts and the smarmy host Steve Wright was almost lost for
words. "This really is an evocative song," was all he could think of to say as a
scruffy geezer in jeans and a plaid shirt waited on stage, alone.

The studio audience swayed helplessly, not knowing what to do as the big-nosed
bloke sang in a booming voice: "I was a miner, I was a docker, I was a
railwayman, between the wars." His song was an historical one, about how the
working classes were betrayed by the government in the Twenties and Thirties. It
could not have been more unfashionable, but it was in the charts. And any doubt
as to why Billy Bragg was singing it disappeared with the last verse: "Sweet
moderation, heart of this nation, desert us not, we are between the wars."

The second time he was noticed - really noticed, above the usual background
babble - was just after the Gulf War. Between the wars again, we might now say.
In the summer of 1991 Billy Bragg released an album called Don't Try This At
Home, which was supposed to put him up alongside big sellers like Johnny Marr of
the Smiths and Michael Stipe of REM, both of whom contributed to the record. The
only hit single was a song called "Sexuality" whose lyrics were celebratory,
even daft - "I've made passes, at women of all classes" - but contained one line
that meant a great deal to a lot of people. "Just because you're gay, I won't
turn you away." That it seems trite now is mostly an indication of how much the
world has changed (outside theChurch of England, at least). Hearing it sung,
happily, by a straight singer on Top of thePops was a shock to many and gave
others hope that they might not be marginalised for much longer. Once again
Billy Bragg had mixed pop and politics with the personal to speak up for
compassion. He may not have sold as many records as his label had hoped, but he
had made an important point into a decent melody.

That is what he has always been for. He's not a pop star, not with that face
andthose vowels, and his profile has always been greater than his record sales.
He is a protest singer, as Woody Guthrie's daughter Nora recognised when she
chose Bragg over the likes of Bob Dylan and Bruce Springsteen to be her father's
spiritual heir and record his unfinished songs. Mermaid Avenue, the resulting
album recorded with the American band Wilco in 1998, was nominated for a Grammy;
so was Volume Two, released in 2000. The project also gave him a shot in the
arm, because for a while after theIron Lady was wheeled off into the sunset
Bragg had looked like Don Quixote without windmills: left with nothing at which
to tilt.

Appendicitis did him a favour, because he had to slow down. The birth of his
sonJack in 1993 was also a cause for reflection. Billy Bragg still writes
beautiful, passionate songs, and he makes records and tours vigorously, but he
does other things too, like writing articles and presenting programmes on radio
and television. He still calls himself a socialist, despite his relative wealth,
but is no longer amember of the Labour Party. The angry young man who sang for
Labour on the Red Wedge tours and posed with Neil Kinnock is now just as angry
about what Tony Blair has done withhis political inheritance.

Every time we are on the verge of forgetting Billy Bragg he pops up again:
sharing a double A side No 1 with Wet Wet Wet, or dressing up as a Roman
Centurion for a debate on Newsnight during the last election. Artists can't
choose the moments when something they paint or write or sing seems suddenly to
speak on behalf of largenumbers of people. They are lucky if it happens once,
but it has happened to Billy Bragg at least three times, and the third was as
much of a surprise to himas the rest of us. Last summer, during the Golden
Jubilee celebrations, he released a song called "Take Down The Union Jack". Once
again it said the unfashionable thing, this time among a sea of flags waved for
the Queen and the England football teamin the World Cup. "Take down the Union
Jack, it clashes with the sunset, and put it in the attic with the emperor's old
clothes ... is this the 19th century that I'm watching onTV?" He found himself
on Top of the Pops again. "Seven days before it was just asong about a flag. The
week after it was just a song about a flag. But that week it really resonated."

So it worked. But whatever else Bragg is, the stubborn determination to say
whatseems right, however out of step, is very like an old-fashioned prophet. He
usedto be the singing Tony Benn, but Benn has just released an album of his
speechesset to music. Both of them could be compared to the medieval monks who
were paid to pray around the clock so that the lord of the manor did not have to
bother. Buy a CD of Bill or Benn banging on and you are free to live as normal
in the knowledge that you've done your bit. He makes me feel old when we meet
again, not far from the 100 Club. This time he drinks cappuccino.

YOU'VE MELLOWED. There was always tenderness as well as anger in the songs, but
the last album England Half-English was stuffed with references to clouds,
walking by the sea and thinking spiritual thoughts. Has something happened?

"Yeah. Parenthood and the fall of the Berlin Wall. Which do you want me to deal
with first?"

Parenthood.

"Okay. I think children are the key to understanding the mystery of life.
They're not it, but they are the key to it. They make you think outside your
ownlittle selfish box. The understanding that everyone is someone's child has
greatly informed my thinking, crossed with the collapse of the Berlin Wall and
the question of what socialism is after that. Socialism was an ideological
expression of my basic humanitarian ideals and those are still intact, but the
language we use to articulate them, the language of Marxism, is over. It's
summed up for me in the song "Upfield", and its evocation of "socialism of the
heart", rather than socialism of the head, which would be purely ideological,
rational and dialectical. Previously my socialism gave me a prism through which
to see things, which is helpful, but it distorts."

Why is that?

"Because of Stalinism. If you're gonna articulate the way you see the world in
socialist terms you are constantly going to be tripped up by people going,
'Whatabout totalitarianism?' And fair enough. The great thing now, after the
collapseof the Soviet Union, is that we have the opportunity - our generation -
to articulate a new compassionate politics out of the shadow of totalitarianism.
We can use words like compassion and accountability, instead of socialism and
democracy. That word democracy makes people think of electing politicians, not
controlling multi-national corporations, but accountability means making Tony
Blair accountable for what hehas done over the war, not just voting for him
every five years. How do you makehim respond to the outpouring of feeling
against the war?"

It's a nice cosy word, compassion. Can you be more specific about what it
means,in terms of policy?

"Yes, by asking, 'Is this policy compassionate or not? Does this make the world
a better place?'"

Your recent song "Some Days I See the Point" has you seeking comfort by the
waterside, up on the cliff, staring at the clouds. We're heading for the
Romantics, for William Blake, for pantheism, aren't we?

"Yeah. It's not a Him and Us thing. The Him is Us, probably. I can go both ways
on whether there is a God. I say my prayers."

Do you?

"Yeah. Course I do. What do you think I wear this for, just because I come from
Essex?" He fishes a Saint Christopher medallion out of his shirt. "You'd be
surprised how often I quietly clutch that in the back of some plane somewhere."

You were always one of those people who believe the world is their neighbour,
but having children makes that feel less like an ideological position and more
like an instinctive truth, doesn't it?

"I can't watch films I used to like now if kids get hurt in them. An injury to
one is an injury to all. That is a fundamental trade union belief. It is about
fellow-feeling, whether your starting point is the Sermon on the Mount or you
are coming from the trade union movement. I'll tell you something odd though:
the God of the NewTestament, I feel, is with us, on the Left - but the God of
the Old Testament ismanifest in George W Bush. The God that says 'I am a jealous
God and I will punish you' is definitely manifesting itself in the Bush
administration, which is really fucking weird. I've got to watch it because the
enemy of our making a better world is cynicism. Watching Newsnight some nights
I'm drawn to throwing things at the telly, through what Labour are doing, but
'Some Days I See the Point' is about the personal struggle to be a true
believer. To keep engaged."

To keep the faith?

"Exactly. We don't say that lightly on the Left. It is a faith. The overlap
withthe Church is crucial. If you go back to the Civil War it was all about
trying to make manifest what's in the Bible."

Let's talk about dreams and visions. You follow your passions, and one of those
is William Blake.

"Blake really speaks to the contemporary mind. He was, by any standards, a
compassionate person. 'Jerusalem' has always been a socialist song to me.
Peopledon't sing the question marks. It's anti-capitalist. It's saying, 'Look at
what's going on. Look at the dark satanic mills. Do you think Jesus ever meant
it to be like this?' The great thing about the second verse is that it's all
'me' - bring me, give me- until the final line, the pay-off: 'Til we have built
Jerusalem.' What a greatbit of song-writing. Blake probably spent five minutes
on it when he'd just come back from the pub. It's like me recording a pisstake
of the monarchy that ends up as the national anthem."

Your song "Upfield" talks about seeing angels on Primrose Hill.

"I was trying to evoke the sort of person who would climb up to watch the
sunsetwearing an England football shirt. It's not only for the poets. I don't
know about angels, it seems they only manifest themselves to Americans. But in
the sense of the Piper at the Gates of Dawn episode in Wind In The Willows where
everything suddenly funnels down to a set of circumstances that are not actually
rationally explicable? Yeah. I think there's a different consciousness that we
can call heaven, if we like. Those who are not physically present are in some
ways emotionally present. My father has been dead 27 years but it would have
been he and my mum's golden wedding last week. I sent her some flowers and
talked to her on the phone. Afterwards I was thinking, 'Of all the things I have
done in my life I just wish he could have met Jack.' And by thinking that I
thought, 'I wonder what he was most proud of. I bet it was meand my brother.' It
just made me feel like there was ... a little touch there, that maybe came from
me or from somewhere else. Not a manifestation, not anything moving about, no
shit like that, but just a feel. I'll buy that."

One reason I'm asking about God is your decision to to play Greenbelt, a
church-based arts festival, as well as Leeds and Reading over Bank Holiday
weekend. That's a bit of surprise. I know the festival is sponsored by
ChristianAid and was a crucible of both the fair trade and debt-relief
movements, but how do you get on with peoplewho believe in a personal
relationship with Jesus?

"There are plenty of people I work with who are trying to reform the House of
Lords who don't believe it means anything unless I rejoin the Labour Party and
become an MP. But does me not joining the Labour Party invalidate what I am
saying and doing? No. We are fellow travellers. The majority of people in our
society would not mind being thought of as fellow travellers of Jesus Christ.
They would look at the words Jesus said and say: 'Yeah, I totally adhere to
that. I can't live up to itand I can't do the 24-seven that the Evangelicals do
but that doesn't in any way negate my relationship with the divine. How dare you
say it does just because I'm not, youknow, crook-line-and-sinker?'"

Your last album was called England Half-English, after the title of a book of
essays by Colin MacInnes. One piece in that book is about Tommy Steele, the
country's first rock and roll star, and the way a new multi- cultural England
was emerging in the Fifties under the noses of the Establishment who failed to
recognise it. You hada flag of St George on the cover and talked about claiming
Englishness back fromthe racists. We're having to reinvent Englishness all the
time aren't we?

"No, not at all. It doesn't need reinvention, it's changing all the time. What
it means here in Portland Place is different from what it means in Lincolnshire
or Dorset, where I live. It's not either-or, it's a mixture of the both.
Englandis a place and what happens in that space is called Englishness. Not the
other way round. It's about this space we're all in together and how we
interact. That's the crucial thing: not are you white Anglo-Saxon Church of
England blah, blah, blah. The thing that nobody seems to grasp any more is that
Anglo-Saxon has a hyphen in the middle of it. That gives a pointer to our
diversity, to our ability to take in vastly different influences and give birth
to new cultures. Britain was impregnated by the Celts and then the Anglo-Saxons
and the Normans and from that, new ideas flowed. And after the Second World War
by the Americans. Imagine what the Beatles would have sounded like if they had
only listened to English music.

"Football is important, because it's one of the few universal experiences of
Englishness. My wife, whose father is Spanish, would rather support Spain; but
during the last World Cup the flag of St George was accessible to her for the
first time and she felt OK about it. I would like to think the England football
team represents theway we are. There are no black players in the German team, no
black players in the Scottish team, not because they are all racists but because
they haven't yethad that influx of multi-culturalism that leads to black players
rising in their sport. Nasser Hussain being captain of the English cricket team
says something about usthat we should be proud of. Because of our uneasiness in
talking about these things we have left a vacuum where progressive Englishness
should be, and that space is very easily filled by Tebbitites and racists and
fascists."

If we can get over our guilt about the colonial past, right?

"No. History belongs to all of us, but if we are constantly going back to the
past it will become a prison. Look at the John Nash church down there. Where I
walk my dog there's a Second World War bunker and over the hill there's a
BronzeAge burial mound. Those things are not in the past, they're in the
present. If we're going to wring our hands about history there is a damn good
reason why we have the most multi-cultural society in Europe and it's to do with
our contacts during the empire and the way we made people feel. Among other
things we did, we gave everyone a British passport. It's awful it has all been
rescinded. History does inform us and it's important, and your ethnicity is
important, but where you are is more important than where you come from.
Otherwise we'd just be banging on about the fucking Germans trying totake over
Europe. That's the guilt agenda, the one we're fighting against. The reason all
this is important is the euro decision coming up. The euro is an economic and
political idea, not a cultural identity one. I've been to France and Germany
since the euro came in and they're not that different. They've still got
Marianne on the coins in France. We'll still have the Queen on the euro."

How is Englishness different in Dorset from London?

"Being a Londoner the whole world is on your doorstep. You're very fortunate to
that extent. But London ain't England in the same way New York ain't America
andParis ain't France. It's great to live down in Dorset: all the open space,
you can see the ocean, you can see the fucking horizon. Even up here on the
umpteenth floor you can't see the horizon. So there are pluses in both places
but Englishness doesn't get strong and weak, it's not like a gravity field or
the tide. It's like time, it's everywhere."

He has been looking out the window, stroking the arm of his chair as he
struggles for a thought, but now he looks at me and laughs.

"No it's not! Englishness is like time, it doesn't exist. We make time exist so
we can get on with our lives and work together. Englishness is just a way of
manifesting our feelings about the culture we live in. I wouldn't really think
about it except it's become a political issue, with the rise of the BNP, and
that's very important to me because it's where I came in, by going to a rock
against racism gig way back and beginning to be politicised. People want to feel
part of something and patriotism offers you the opportunity to do that."

Which brings us to the war. We've been sold down the river, haven't we?

"We have, actually. And we seem to have sold the farm in order to do it: first
of all the United Nations, and then our relationship with our European
neighbours as well, have been thrown up. We've been shanghaied into this.
There's not really a logic to it. You could see why they went into Afghanistan,
given 11 September, but beyondthat it seems mad."

You talk about resisting cynicism but it's difficult not to be cynical when a
million people march against war and are ignored. It was pointless wasn't it?

"No. Those unprecedented numbers on the streets gave great strength to people
inParliament who were feeling queasy about the whole thing. My concern is that
thereal ramifications of that day won't really be felt until the next election.
Allthose people will feel they have nowhere to go so they won't vote and Blair
will win. We'll have the first government elected on a less than 50 per cent
turn out."

What can you do about it?

"Reform the House of Lords to make it proportional to all the votes cast in a
general election. So in Dorset it's not worth voting Labour, but I could still
vote knowing I will elect a member of the House of Lords from the regional
list.That would encourage people to vote for the party of their choice - green,
red, UKIP - because they would get representation."

Why on earth should the present Government make that happen?

"Because they need a big idea. They've got to engage with the electorate before
the next election. There is a constituency for this idea and they are the
peoplewho lick stamps and knock on doors for the Labour Party, and God knows
Blair hasgot to reconnect with them. The next album was going to be called
Getting Engaged Againwith Billy Bragg until the missus pointed out it has
another meaning."

History is important to you, isn't it? It's self-taught too, which may be why
you're still so passionate about it.

"Probably, yeah, although I haven't got it off pat."

She didn't know much anyway.

"Unfortunately she didn't have it written down! The ability to find out
contraryfacts and go and research them, I find that very interesting."

Regarding post-war history and Englishness, we ought to say that someone like
you being publicly engaged over the long term with the nature of who we are and
what we're doing is a relatively new thing. For society to, in effect, say,
"Billy, go and think about who we are." Boys from Barking didn't do this stuff
in the past, did they?

"That's very true. Without an Oxbridge education you didn't really get the time
of day. But then celebrity is weird thing, it gets you into some very odd
places. I don't mind that. If you can use that to get a platform, to say
things,to offer a different perspective ... that's probably the most that music
can do. The best music that's really moved me, political music, offered me
something different from what I was getting off the mainstream media."

You've got a greatest hits album coming out in the autumn. What took you so
long?

"I pooh-poohed a greatest hits album, then suddenly remembered that I got into
Bob Dylan through his. If you're 18 years old and into conscious music, how
elsedo you get into my stuff? The punters chose it. I asked them on the website,
'What do you think should be the essential Billy Bragg?' That's why it's a
bloody double album."

What do you call your devoted fans? Braggies? Billies?

"Saddos. That's what I call them. Get a life. Get off the web, stop clogging up
my website, get a life! No, I know quite a lot of them because they come down
toTolpuddle the festival in honour of the martyrs , which is about half an hour
from my house, so I play and we hang out a bit there. They bring their kids.
It's good fun."

Tomorrow you're on Radio 4 talking about the life of a singer ...

"No, I'm not, actually. It has been cancelled. Dunno why. They said we could
have the hotel room, though. So all I've got to do tomorrow is a voice-over for
a Woody Guthrie documentary, and if I've got time to get to the British Museum
to see the Lindisfarne gospels exhibit, I will. Then I'll go home."

You mean Barking?

"Yep. My mum lives in the house we grew up in. My brother lives up by what is
now the University of East London. A couple of years ago they named the street
after me and now they ring me up every so often and get me over to do stuff
withthe local arts people."

Do you get nostalgic about it?

"No. There's not a lot in ... I was going to say in Barking, but I should say
inme. So no. Otherwise you start getting like, 'Oh, they should have knocked the
Odeon down'. Bollocks."

The last radical, the sole remaining socialist singer, who has had to reinvent
and adapt and compromise like the rest of us, is still making sense. Still a
decent bloke. And still looking forward. For all the angry young idealists who
have also had to cope with growing up, raising kids and paying a mortgage, it is
comforting to know that Billy Bragg has not quite given up yet.

"Stuff changes," he says. "Englishness changes. Home changes. I don't want to
live in the past." m

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                                8 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 6, 2003, Saturday

Blair is target in the battle for Brent

BYLINE: Greg Hurst Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 14

LENGTH: 288 words


WHISPER Bermondsey, whisper Greenwich. In their makeshift campaign headquarters,
Liberal Democrats talk of Brent East being about to join their by-election
triumphs.

They remember Eastbourne, Newbury and their run of Conservative scalps in the
1990s. Some remember Orpington, scene of the stunning victory of 1962.

But it is Bermondsey, which Simon Hughes took for the Liberals in 1983, and the
SDP conquest of Greenwich in 1987, which the Lib Dem elections director Lord
Rennard cites as parallels -the last inner-city London seats they took from
Labour.

Charles Kennedy has thrown all but the kitchen sink at Brent East, despite
trailing third there in the general election and starting with no local
councillors in the seat itself.

A Tory councillor, Carol Shaw, has since defected to the Lib Dems.

The wall of the Lib Dem campaign office is plastered with dozens of newspapers,
leaflets, focus newsletters and personalised letters. Many highlight
quality-of-life issues, but several feature Tony Blair, echoing their negative
targeting of William Hague two years ago.

Full list of candidates: Jiten Bardwaj, Aaron Barschak, Brian Butterworth
(Socialist Alliance), Iris Cremer (Socialist Labour Party), Robert Evans
(Labour), Uma Fernandes (Local Conservative), Brian Hall (UKIP), Alan Hope
(Raving Loony), Fawzi Ibrahim (Public Services. Not War), Harold Immanuel (Ind),
Noel Lynch (Green), Kelly McBride, Winston McKenzie (Ind), Sarah Teather (Lib
Dem), Neil Walsh (Ind), "Rainbow" George Weiss (www.xat.org).

General election 2001: Labour 18,325 (63.2%), C 5,278 (18.2%), Lib Dem 3,065
(10.5%), Green 1,361 (4.6%), ProLife 392 (1.3%), Soc Lab 383 (1.3%), UKIP 188
(0.6%). Lab maj 13,047.


LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited
