
                                1 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                                October 31, 2003

Lib Dems to target would be leader: MP respected but slim majority now puts his
seat at top of hitlist

BYLINE: Tania Branigan

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 674 words


The sky was slate-grey, the wind was biting, but everyone in Folkestone seemed
jubilant as they anticipated their MP's ascendancy to the Tory leadership.

If Tory activists were buoyant, the Liberal Democrats were just as cheery,
cockily assuring the press that they could unseat Michael Howard at the next
election.

But no one's smile matched the unabashed grin of the candidate himself, staring
from a gilt frame at the Tory HQ like a cat who had just gorged himself on
Jersey's finest.

Despite his many reasons to be cheerful, the shadow home secretary knows that
becoming leader would catapult his seat from number 30 to the very top of
Charles Kennedy's target list. The Liberal Democrats' chief strategist, Lord
Rennard, has already discussed the tactics for it.

Mr Howard's majority is just under 6,000 and a 6.5% swing would give the Liberal
Democrats a trophy unlike any other. They won control of the local council at
the last election - including seats in apparently solid Tory wards - and insist
they can maintain that momentum.

"He's vulnerable, no doubt about it," said Simon Finlay, editor of the
Folkestone Herald, "but he's built a huge personal following in the town."

Political commentators have observed that Mr Howard, a strong parliamentary
performer, lacks the charisma to sell himself to the electorate.

Yet 21 years of devotion to unglamorous constituency matters have won him
surprising admirers in his seat.

Shoppers yesterday described their MP as hard-working, "a good listener" and
even charming.

"I think people judge him by first appearances," said Valerie Walsh, 41, who
voted for Labour last time. "He's come to our church a few times and seems
genuinely caring. He just wants the best for the town. He's really sincere."

Others suggested that it was refreshing to have an MP who offered substance, not
spin.

"I think there's immense depth to him," said Helen Gormley, 65. The lifelong
Tory switched to Labour in 2001 but feels that Tony Blair has failed to live up
to his promises. "I don't think a lot of talk is what we're looking for any
more. We've had too much of that. If Michael Howard says he's going to do
something, he will jolly well do it."

But Nigel Hartlebury, 34, felt that Mr Howard had done little for Folkestone and
planned to vote tactically at the next election. "I went for Labour at the last
national election, but the Liberal Democrats stand the best chance here," he
said.

Peter Carroll, the Liberal Democrat candidate in 2001, said he expected more
people to follow suit if Mr Howard assumed the leadership. "It will bring things
in this constituency into sharp focus; how people vote will have a real impact,"
he said.

He added that Liberal Democrat policies were already winning over disillusioned
Labour voters, while mainstream Tories could be wooed when attempts to portray
the party as compassionate wore thin. "Political leopards don't change their
spots," he said.

"(Howard) was an active member of one of the poorest governments we have ever
had. He's yesterday's man with yesterday's politics."

Yet David Monk, chairman of the Tory constituency association, was bullish.

"The mere fact he is leader will gain him votes," he said, adding that while Mr
Howard's majority fell at the last election, his share of the vote increased.
When he has lost support it has generally been to the right: he suffered in 1997
when John Aspinall stood for the Referendum party, and probably lost votes in
2001 to the UK Independence party.

"If (the Liberal Democrats) keep up the pressure it's good news for the rest of
the country. Their resources are so small they will just expend energy against a
brick wall."

And no, he insisted, the MP wasn't slippery; just honest.

"Sometimes he has difficulty giving an answer because he doesn't want to tell a
lie," Mr Monk said, then moved on hastily. "Determination. That's his greatest
virtue."

Mr Howard will no doubt need that to take the helm of his troubled party.


LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                                2 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 30, 2003, Thursday

We work, we save, we vote, we care...but nobody listens to us

BYLINE: Damian Whitworth and Carol Midgley

SECTION: Features; Times2; 4

LENGTH: 2750 words


SELFISH, WORKSHY AND UNINTERESTED IN HOW THEIR COUNTRY AND THE WORLD ARE
GOVERNED - THAT IS THE POPULAR VIEW OF OUR YOUNG ADULTS. IN FACT, A NEW SURVEY
FOR THE TIMES SHOWS THEY ARE CONSCIENTIOUS, IDEALISTIC AND CARE DEEPLY ABOUT
IMPORTANT ISSUES, BUT FEEL THEY HAVE NO VOICE. DAMIAN WHITWORTH AND CAROL
MIDGLEY REPORT.

THIS is a story about people who believe that no one is listening.

They are concerned citizens, keenly aware that it is their civic duty to vote in
the next general election despite their disillusionment with politics and
political leaders disengaged from their lives.

They worry about the future of the NHS, crime and schools, not trendy "youth"
issues such as legalisation of drugs and banning hunting. They like to save
their money, but are shouldering heavy debts. They have clear career plans, and
to ease the pain of all that hard work, or to have a good time, they pop a pill
or inhale something herbal.

No, this is not a pen portrait of the Baby Boomer generation, but the surprising
picture of today's 18 to 24-year-olds, revealed by a poll conducted for T2 by
Populus. It is confirmed in numerous interviews, and in a huge number of e mails
we received from readers in response to our request to tell us how the world
looks from early adulthood.

The poll shows that those in this age group are a solid, conscientious sounding
bunch streaked with idealism, not the disaffected youth so often depicted in the
media. Perhaps the most intriguing findings relate to politics, where the
message is that young people are alienated from politicians, but not from the
issues and the need to debate them. Nine in ten say: "We all have a
responsibility to vote."

Two thirds say: "The three main parties are so alike that it doesn't make much
difference who gets in." Still, 44 per cent pledge themselves to Labour, with
the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats neck and neck on 23 per cent (bad news
for the Tories, who do better in the population as a whole). The Green Party has
earned the backing of 5 per cent, and the UK Independence Party is on 1 per
cent. So too, somewhat alarmingly, is the BNP.

But while they may give the parties their vote, a thumping 71 per cent say that
"politics matters, but political parties today have nothing to say on the really
important issues". The failure of the Stop the War campaign is seen as symbolic
of politicians' failure to listen. To this age group the key issues are the NHS,
crime, schools, asylum-seekers and public transport, just as in the population
as a whole.

Issues often regarded as close to the hearts of the young are remarkably absent.

Legalising the use of recreational drugs comes bottom of the list of issues that
they were asked to place in order of priority. Banning blood sports was second
bottom. Ending globalisation is 11th.

More than half think that political leaders were more inspiring when their
parents were young, and 61 per cent think the leaders of their grandparents' era
were of a superior calibre.

Almost half think that their parents' generation has no idea what it is like to
be a young adult today.Two thirds think their grandparents are unaware of what
it is to be young in the 21st century.

If you are one of those grandparents, you should know that your pragmatic
grandchildren have mapped out their careers and are disciplined savers. But 58
per cent have an overdraft, many as a legacy of their student days. Fewer than a
quarter pay into a private pension plan, and less than a fifth have a mortgage.

The one area of youth culture where the findings may be particularly shocking to
parents and grandparents is the use of drugs. Almost nine in ten say marijuana
is used very widely or quite widely by their peers. More than half say that
cocaine is very widely or quite widely used, and 74 per cent say the same of
Ecstasy and "other club drugs".

How else do 18 to 24-year-olds spend their time? Buying clothes is top, followed
by purchasing and listening to CDs, which are well ahead of clubs, bars and
pubs.

Next is eating out, and then drinking alcohol. Perhaps all those Friends-style
coffee bars in bookshops have had an effect, as "buying and reading books" is
above sporting events and "gigs and concerts", which propped up the list.

WHAT THEY CARE ABOUT IN ORDER OF IMPORTANCE

1 Improving the NHS

2 Equal rights and protections for everyone regardless of gender, sexual
orientation, colour, or religion

3 Reducing crime levels

4 Raising standards in schools

5 Dealing effectively with the issue of asylum-seekers

6 Improving public transport

7 Ending the arms trade

8 Addressing the causes of global warming

9 Redistributing wealth from the richest to the poorest

10 Increasing the amount of aid we give to developing countries

11 Ending globalisation

12 Stop experimenting with genetically modified food

13 Banning blood sports

14 Legalising the use of recreational drugs

TOP 10 LEISURE PURSUITS

1 Buying clothes

2 Listening to/buying CDs

3 Clubs, bars and pubs

4 Eating out

5 Drinking alcohol

6 Travel

7 Cinema/theatre

8 Reading/buying books

9 Sporting events

10 Gigs/concerts

LAURA SLADE, 24 (below)

Graduate from Worcester, bank credit manager

IT'S not true that young people aren't interested in politics, it's just a sense
that your vote doesn't count for anything.

I felt the war in Iraq was justified but I know a lot of people who felt very
strongly against it yet thought there was no way of getting their opinions
heard.

A lot of people my age don't vote because no one listens.

There are lots of issues I care deeply about, such as how we care for the
elderly, the homeless and children, but we don't vote for issues in this
country, we vote for parties, personalities. I have voted Liberal Democrat in
the past two general elections because they attempt to come up with different
solutions to problems.

Charles Kennedy is a very charismatic leader.

The drugs I see most are Ecstasy and coke. Separate groups of my friends do
different types of drugs. I don't, so I don't go clubbing any more simply
because I can't stay up until 6am. You need drugs for that.

I bought my first flat when I was 23 and have now bought a house with my
boyfriend. I'm constantly worrying about negative equity and whether interest
rates go up.

When I was a kid hearing people going on about interest rates I used to think,
'How boring!', but now I understand. I have a good job and a pension and I
contribute to an ISA, but I have lots of student debt. I worry that if I lost my
job I would get into trouble, and it makes me nervous about the future.

LYDIA STRACHAN, 21

Student at Durham University

I'M in my third year at university and all the companies are coming around
recruiting. Most of my friends will be going into lucrative jobs such as
investment banking and marketing.

I'm lucky that my parents paid for most things at university. I have a student
loan -I'll owe £9,000, and that still terrifies me -but I'm not in as much debt
as many people. There is a much laxer attitude to debt in my generation.

People are happier about getting into debt. But for a lot of people getting into
that debt is not a choice. So people are encouraged even more to go into jobs
that will pay them more.

ELIZABETH BARRETT, 24,

Charity administrator

THE Government would appeal far more to me if it was a lot less concerned with
its media profile. I don't care about scandal, but I do care about results. I
suppose I am politically apathetic in as much as I don't see how politics has
the ability to make any difference to my life.

Young people do care about things, have the ability to engage passionately with
their surroundings, and it frustrates me when people claim otherwise. There's a
hype around politics, the spin-doctors and the way that politicians present
themselves that didn't exist before. It spells falsity and does not interest me
in the slightest. This fakery seems inherent now in ways that it wasn't before.

Do I have any savings? Are you joking? I am heavily in debt, although I'm not
worried about it at all. I think the majority of young people are in debt, but
money is not the issue it once was.

People live their lives in a far more ephemeral way. Owning a house, for
example, seems too distant and difficult to give it much thought.

I did have a career plan when I was at university and when I had just graduated.

Once you start out in the real world you realise that you have to keep a lot of
plates spinning -money and time being the primary ones -and it becomes
incredibly difficult to remain focused. I think career plans are idealistic in
relation to what really happens.

Drugs are incredibly widespread, so much so that they are run-of-the-mill now
rather than unusual. I would say that the majority of my friends take drugs. Put
it this way: if I was to express it as a fraction it would be 1.

JASON HICKLIN, 22

I'M a Conservative voter and have been Tory since I learnt to say "Maggie
Fatcher" at the age of three. Yet coming from a working-class area and a Labour
stronghold, I was told by some of my teachers at school that I was a traitor to
my class. I will always vote, I feel it is my duty.

The country needs someone like me, not your typical Tory, to rattle some cages
and voice the opinions of hard-working Middle England, who seem to have been
greatly let down by Mr Blair's Government.

I fear the weakness of the Conservatives will turn some voters to other parties,
including the British National Party. I have thought about voting for an extreme
party, more as a protest vote against the Tories rather than support for an
extreme party's policies.

PAUL ROONEY, 24

Financial trader, from Belfast

YOUNG people today have more to worry about than the last generation. There is
more pressure to perform at school from an early age and to do well for
themselves. There are university debts and peer pressure to do drugs and have
sex.

Because I'm from a single-parent family I got my tuition fees paid and a grant
to study but I'm still in a bit of debt from my student days. I think the
student loans system is fair. I went to university to improve my lot, and if I'm
successful in my career then I have to pay the money back. But we can't have
students joining the workforce with debts of over £30,000 it's too big a burden.
It's OK for the rich but not for people from poor backgrounds.

One of my biggest concerns is the lack of affordable housing in today's world. I
live in Dublin now, which is very expensive. There's no chance of getting on the
property ladder. I rent a room in a house with five others. It costs me Euro 400
a month.

I tend to spend my money on books, CDs, clothes and going out. One night's
drinking a week keeps me happy. I tend to have about eight or nine drinks on
that one occasion and I suppose it would be better if I spread my drink over the
week, but I do it because I enjoy it.

RICHARD HARPER, 21

Veterinary student

EDUCATION concerns me most. The Government is getting it all wrong. I started my
secondary education at a fee-paying school in 1993. It was the practice at the
time to have around 20 per cent of pupils on assisted or fully funded places.

Since Labour came to power these assisted places have been abandoned and now all
students have to pay full fees, around £6,000 a year. So with this tax on
supposed elitism, my school became one for the financially rather than the
academically elite. This makes no sense to me. You don't make academically poor
kids better by putting them in a class with bright kids, you just drag the bad
kids down. The Government needs to realise that there should be tiers of
academic achievement and that not everyone can be equal in these stakes.

TOM TAYLOR, 25

Painter and decorator, London

I DID not vote in the last election as it was inevitable that Labour was going
to win. I can't see myself voting in the future, as whichever party wins will
face the same problems such as crime, the NHS and education. What's important to
me is saving money to leave the country and live somewhere less stressful.

GEMMA MATTHEWS, 25

Religious education teacher

I STUDIED theology at Oxford, then completed a PGCE in teaching, and was
fortunate to get a job immediately after graduating. I voted in the 1997
election but not the following one as I didn't have time after work and Labour
was expected to win.

I also believe that as my life was quite fulfilled with no immediate problems
with the Government, I did not feel there was a need to change. To vote in the
future I would want assurances that the NHS would not be phased out, and if
foundation hospitals were introduced they would be aware of local communities.

ED WILLIAMSON, 24 Bank compliance officer MOST people my age are more interested
in buying their next pair of trainers than politics. Making money is what most
young people are concerned with, especially if you are considering buying a
house in London.

MARK APLIN, 24

Finance worker

I AM a binge-drinker every Friday night -it's my release from the dullness of
work. I spend most of my disposable income on socialising, buying clothes from
Selfridges and paying off debts. However, I am able to have a decent lifestyle
owing to the fact that I still live with my parents. I'll worry about savings at
a later date.

CLAIRE ROCHE, 22

Barrister's clerk in Wolverhampton

I AM working 14 hours a day doing two jobs -a barrister's clerk by day and a
waitress by night. I decided I wanted to travel the world before I started
making serious commitments so I am working hard to pay for it. At the age of 18
I got myself into debt, which held me back from things I wanted to do. I aimed
to clear it and learnt from my mistakes. Eighteen is too young to be able to
obtain loans.

The number of people I know who have debt problems is unbelievable. My day job
pays into a pension for me. I am lucky to have this but am worried that when I
come to claim it, it will not be enough to live on.

After travelling I intend to invest in a property and feel that this is probably
the best way to help me in my retirement.

IJEROME NWOKOLA, 22

Student at City University, London

I DIDN'T vote in the last election as I didn't think it was necessary. I don't
think they really care about ethnic minorities or young people anyway. They
don't listen to our views.

AIMAD SABEK, 25

Chef, Brixton

BEFORE Labour or any party gets my vote it would need to change a lot of things
to gain my trust, such as putting as much money into hospital and schools as it
put into the war.

What do you think of the young people's views in our poll? E-mail
debate@thetimes.co.uk

WILL McBEAN, 23 (left)

Newcastle graduate, lives in London

AMONG those of my parents' age there is a definite sense that we are the "me"
generation; their selfish, bloated offspring content not to care because we can
afford to. But it's not that young people today are less politically inclined
than their parents, they are simply more politically disenfranchised.

Our impotence was underlined by the Stop The War march in London. To put a
million people on the streets, young and old, marching under one banner was a
repudiation of anyone who says that my generation is politically apathetic. I
know very few people of my age who were for the war, and those who were had a
faith that was based on a trust of the Government which looks to have been
sorely betrayed. This won't be forgotten, and it is this that breeds apathy.

I worry about debt. I have lived in London for a year (I share a flat in Brent
with my sister). I feel I'm in the rent trap and won't be able to afford to buy
for a long time. At the end of the week you think: "Well, I'm knackered, and
I've still got no money so I'm going to have a bit of fun." Drug use is
fantastically widespread. The people I know use mainly cannabis and Ecstasy. I
don't get into it because I'm really aware of the damage it could be doing over
a period of time.

You start to think about all those Es people did when they were 19 and when it's
all going to come home to roost. Drug-taking is short-term escapism, but it is
cheap. If you spend £5 or £10 on an E, that's your evening taken care of. At £3
a pint you'd spend an awful lot more drinking.


LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                                3 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 28, 2003, Tuesday

Tories woo Eurosceptics

BYLINE: Anthony Browne in Brussels

SECTION: Overseas news; 13

LENGTH: 276 words


CONSERVATIVE members of the European Parliament have been forging an alliance
with prospective Eastern European members to form a new centre-right Eurosceptic
party dubbed "New Europe". They hope to get 75 members of the Parliament to
join, making it the third-largest political group in Europe.

However, centre-right politicians from other countries are urging them to stay
onside, saying that splitting the Right into Eurosceptic and Europhile camps
will make the socialist group the largest in the Parliament, potentially
allowing it to choose the president of the European Commission.

The Tories are frustrated that the European People's Party, the main pan
European centre-right party to which they belong, is too keen on further
political integration.

The situation has come to a head because the European People's Party officially
enthusiastically supports a new European constitution despite the British
Conservatives' opposition to it. Officially the New Europe Party would describe
itself as "Eurorealist".

A Conservative Party source said: "The party has been talking to these other
Eastern European groups at various levels for months." The Tories have had close
links with the region's centre-right parties since Baroness Thatcher worked to
help them to establish democracy after the fall of the Berlin Wall.

The would-be founding members of New Europe are scheduled to hold a meeting in
Prague at the end of next month. Eurosceptic parties on the far Right, such as
Jean-Marie Le Pen's National Front in France and Jorg Haider's Freedom Party in
Austria, are excluded, as is the United Kingdom Independence Party.


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                                4 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 28, 2003, Tuesday

IDS and the clamour to replace him

SECTION: Features; 21

LENGTH: 130 words


From Mr George Roberts

Sir, The prospect of Ken Clarke leading the Conservative Party is not one which
a serious Eurosceptic should countenance.

Despite his massive experience and undoubted media savvy, his appointment would
lead to a cross-party consensus that we are irretrievably part of the European
project.

We deserve better than to be led, without discussion or democratic debate, by a
party system that assumes the views of ordinary people without seeking them. The
debate about the European constitution should involve all main parties, as well
as the UK Independence Party, whose policy of withdrawal from the EU should not
be dismissed out of hand.

Yours sincerely, GEORGE ROBERTS, 65 Church Way, Sanderstead, Croydon CR2 0JU.

October 24.


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                                5 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 19, 2003, Sunday

TONY MARTIN FINDS SUCCESS ON CHAT SHOW TRAIL

BYLINE: SOPHIE GOODCHILD HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT Martin: guest of honour at
Oxford Union

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 337 words


First there was Tony Martin, the campaign for freedom. Now there is Tony Martin,
the tour, the book, and even the badge. For a man once described as a recluse,
the Norfolk farmer jailed for shooting a burglar dead is demonstrating a
remarkable appetite for meeting and greeting.

Now that he is at liberty again, the 58-year-old bachelor has become the
unlikely darling of the chat show and lecture circuit. Tomorrow, Mr Martin will
appear at the Oxford Union as a guest of honour to speak about his views on law
and order. Cambridge and Durham universities are also bidding for him to address
their students, and next month he will appear at a dinner for the Traditional
Britain Group, which defends an Englishman's right to defend his home. He has
already spoken at Oundle School and addressed the conference of the UK
Independence Party.

The Tony Martin "industry" is not limited to his guest appearances. There is
even a "Tony Martin Security Services" badge, retailing at pounds 5, and soon a
book about his life to satisfy his ever-growing number of devotees, who include
Charlton Heston, the veteran Hollywood actor who champions gun ownership.

Mr Martin is clearly a man who is keen to control his own image. The original
title chosen for his memoirs was "My Right to Kill" but he considered this too
provocative. Instead, Countess Valentina Artsrunik, his publisher and the wife
of reformed armed robber John McVicar, has made a hasty amendment.

"It the title will not be revealed until the book is published in February,"
said the countess who runs Artsrunik publishing. "This book will reflect
absolutely and totally his views."

Malcolm Starr, a friend and unofficial manager, said that Mr Martin had used his
earnings from his after-dinner speeches and television appearances to buy farm
equipment. "The majority of the public have said he deserves the money he
earns," Mr Starr said. "He has been in prison for four years and he deserves a
lot more than the amount he's received."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                                6 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 17, 2003

QUEEN'S NIGHTMARE

BYLINE: Trevor Kavanagh

LENGTH: 615 words


    EU bigwigs could take her powers

    TONY Blair is dragging the Queen into a showdown on Europe which could split
the nation and destroy the monarchy, experts warned last night.

    The crisis threatens to explode unless the PM caves in and holds a
referendum on the new EU constitution.

    A shift in power would be a nightmare for Her Majesty, who could end up
playing second fiddle to leaders like French president Jacques Chirac and
Germany's Gerhard Schroeder.

    We have have pictured them on the right taking her place on the Buckingham
Palace balcony.

    Dissolve

    Royal lawyers are alarmed by a clause in the Treaty which hands all
sovereign power to Brussels -including the Royal prerogative over foreign
policy.

    A senior Royal source last night admitted the Queen is taking legal advice
on the implications for the monarch.

    "But it is not just the Queen," he said. "This runs right through the Royal
Family.

    "Prince Charles has been on to ministers about this. And Prince Philip is
also concerned.

    "They are not anti-Europe. But they are sceptical about what is happening.
The Queen only acts on the advice of the Prime Minister, and she's being advised
there are no constitutional implications at stake.

    "This is clearly not true but the Government has no interest in raising the
issue and they are therefore seeking independent legal advice."

    Constitutional historian David Starkey said of a referendum: "If the Prime
Minister refuses to give the people a say, it would be her duty to act."

    The Queen has the power to dissolve Parliament and call a general election.
"That would be the nuclear option," he added. "We are not there yet, but we are
very, very close to a fundamental change in the way we are governed."

    Article 10 of the Treaty states: "The constitution and law adopted by the
European Union's institutions shall have primacy over the law of the member
states."

    Despite Mr Blair's claim that this is a "tidying up exercise", it represents
a dramatic constitutional change.

    The UK Independence Party last night night joined calls for the Queen to
act.

    Euro MP Nigel Farage said: "The Queen has the constitutional powers to
prevent the government imposing foreign law on the UK. She should use them by
either withholding the royal assent or dissolving Parliament and calling a
general election." But the Queen may be reluctant to act. She would risk
splitting the nation -and destroying the monarchy, said Prof Starkey. He added:
"There would have to be a general election which would effectively become a
referendum not just on the treaty but on the monarchy itself."

    The Palace is alarmed by EU demands for a common foreign and defence policy
the so-called "red lines" which Mr Blair insists he will not cross. Foreign
policy is the last relic of political power available to the monarch. Prof
Starkey said: "Handing it to Brussels would be an erosion of national
sovereignty. We are very near to an irreversible and fundamental change in the
way we are governed."

    Downing Street last night continued to insist the Treaty was a "tidying up"
exercise.

    WHOOPING it up on the Palace balcony with Tony Blair in our mock-up are,
from left, ex-minister Peter Mandelson, back in Blair's inner circle; German
foreign minister Joschka Fischer; Dutch Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende;
Belgium PM Guy Verhofstadt; Irish leader Bertie Ahern; EU Commission President
Romano Prodi; German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder; France's Jacques Chirac;
Spanish Premier Jose Maria Aznar; Italy's Silvio Berlusconi; Commons Leader
Peter Hain -Britain's main player in drawing up the constitution -and EU
commissioner Neil Kinnock.


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                                7 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 11, 2003

OUR HERO

LENGTH: 50 words


    (Photograph) - FARMER Tony Martin gets a standing ovation yesterday at the
UK Independence Party's conference in London.

    Mr Martin, 58, freed from jail in July for shooting dead a 16-year-old
burglar at his Norfolk home, told delegates MPs were "out of touch with the man
on the street."


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                                8 of 8 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 10, 2003, Friday

Farmer Tony Martin backs UKIP

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 121 words

After three months in hibernation, Tony Martin will today appear in public for
the first time since his release. The Norfolk farmer has agreed to speak to
delegates at the UK Independence Party's annual conference in Westminster.

"Very few people know this, but Tony has actually been a member of UKIP for some
time," says a party spokesman. "We've no idea what he will say, but we're
expecting to hear his - ahem - uncompromising views on law and order."

News of Martin's support for UKIP will come as a blow to the Conservatives.
Henry Bellingham, his local MP, has been a staunch supporter, while William
Hague was asked to write the foreword to his forthcoming autobiography.
[PS]Features [ES]

Londonspy:

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited
