
                               1 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 29, 2003

TIME TO WALK INTO SUNSET; DDON'T CHUCK IT ALL AWAY LEWIS

BYLINE: by NICK PARKINSON

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 467 words


LENNOX LEWIS' former manager Frank Maloney wants the WBC heavyweight champion to
quit now - or risk ruining his reputation.

Maloney guided Lewis through the first 12 years of his professional career and
was at his side wearing a Union Jack suit for some of his best highlights until
the Little and Large partnership split in 2001.

But pint-sized Maloney is worried London-born Lewis' career is heading for an
unhappy ending in the re-match with Vitali Klitschko in December.

Lewis, 37, escaped with a sixth-round victory after his title defence against
Klitschko in Los Angeles last weekend was stopped due to cuts around the
Ukrainian's left eye.

Lewis trailed on points when the fight was stopped and is desperate to erase any
doubts as to whether he is still the World No1 in a re-match with the 6ft 8in
giant.

Plans to fight American Roy Jones Junior - the WBA title-holder - have now been
shelved as Lewis bids to KO Klitschko in possibly his last fight. But Maloney
reckons Lewis is falling into the trap of not knowing when to hang up the
gloves.

He said: "Lennox's ego and arrogance are out of control and he will fight on. If
I was still his manager I would sit him down and say he's got nothing left to
achieve and he should retire while he's still champ.

He will be 38 when they fight next and it's obvious his body can't get into
shape like it used to. All he can do is lose his credibility by continuing to
box. Re-matches are never as good as the first one and he doesn't need the
money. He may have boxed badly but he won and should now walk away into the
sunset."

It's a view shared by Wladimir Klitschko who thinks Lewis should hang up his
gloves rather than face his brother in a rematch. Former WBO heavyweight champ
Wladimir, who was in Vitali's corner last weekend, reckons Lewis does not know
he is ready to retire.

He said: "His moment to retire was after Tyson. Not a lot of guys know when to
stop and that is Lewis's mistake also.

He is getting older."

Maloney said: "Both will be a lot more cautious in a re-match and it will be
sloppy but I would have to go for Klitschko - providing he doesn't get cut
again.

"Fighting Roy Jones would be a wrong move for Lennox as well.

He's too young and lively and Lennox's legs are not what they used to be."

Maloney, who is running for London mayor as the UK Independence Party's
candidate next year, blames Lewis' advisers for taking the fight against
Klitschko, 31, at just two weeks notice.

He said: "I would have got him someone a lot easier to beat. He is surrounded by
yes-men now.

"Apart from his trainer Emanuel Steward, the people around him are doing him
more harm than good. He thinks he's unbeatable and his hangers-on keep saying
that too, so he keeps fighting."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 Express Newspapers

                               2 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 29, 2003

CHAMP UNDER FIRE MALONEY IN VERBAL VOLLEY WHILE MEDINA CAN'T BE FAULTED FOR WORK
RATE; BIG-HEAD LEW IS HEADS FOR A FALL

BYLINE: By Nick Parkinson

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 88

LENGTH: 470 words


LENNOX LEWIS' former manager Frank Maloney wants the WBC heavyweight champion to
quit now - or risk ruining his reputation.

Maloney guided Lewis through the first 12 years of his professional career and
was at his side wearing a Union Jack suit for many of the fighter's career
highlights until the Little and Large partnership split in 2001.

But pint-sized Maloney is worried London-born Lewis' career is heading for an
unhappy ending in the rematch with Vitali Klitschko in December.

Lewis, 37, escaped with a sixth-round victory after his title defence against
Klitschko in Los Angeles last weekend was stopped due to cuts around the
Ukrainian's left eye. Lewis trailed on points when the fight was stopped and is
desperate to erase any doubts over whether he is still the world No1 in a
rematch with the 6ft 8in Ukranian giant.

Plans to fight American Roy Jones Jnr - the WBA title-holder - have now been
shelved as Lewis bids to KO Klitschko in possibly his last fight. But Maloney
reckons Lewis is falling into the trap of not knowing when to hang up the gloves
as he treads the same dangerous path as previous heavyweight kings like Joe
Louis, Muhammad Ali and Mike Tyson.

He said: "Lennox's ego and arrogance are out of control and he will fight on. If
I was still his manager I would sit him down and say he's got nothing left to
achieve and he should retire while he's still champ.

"He will be 38 when they fight next and it's obvious his body can't get into
shape like it used to. It's not there any more and age has caught up on him.

"He was in training camp since April so it wasn't like he was out of shape. All
he can do is lose his credibility by continuing to box.

Rematches are never as good as the first one and he doesn't need to earn anymore
money.

"He may have boxed bad but he won and should now walk away into the sunset. Both
will be a lot more cautious in a rematch and it will be sloppy but I would have
to go for Klitschko - providing he doesn't get cut again.

"Fighting Roy Jones would be a wrong move for Lennox as well. He's too young and
lively and Lennox's legs are not what they used to be."

Maloney, who now works for top British promoter Frank Warren and is running for
London mayor as the UK Independence Party's candidate next year, blames Lewis'
advisers for taking the fight against late replacement Klitschko, 31, at just
two weeks' notice.

He said: "I would have told him not to fight Klitschko with such short notice
and got him someone a lot easier to beat. He is surrounded by yes men now.

"Apart from his trainer Emanuel Steward, the people around him are doing him
more harm than good.

"They're not telling him it's time to go.

He thinks he's unbeatable and his hangers-on keep saying that too, so he keeps
fighting."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               3 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 27, 2003, Friday

Battle for independence

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: Home news; 6

LENGTH: 105 words


Dick Morris, who helped to mastermind Bill Clinton's presidential election
victory in 1996, will make his British political debut next week. The former
spin doctor -once dubbed "the second most powerful man in the White House" -will
launch the European election campaign for the UK Independence Party. The date is
prescient - July 4. "Lafayette came to America to secure independence from the
British," says Morris. "I am returning the favour by helping the British now to
get independence from France."

Morris is starting early. The elections are not due for 49 weeks, but there's
nothing like planning ahead ...


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               4 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 26, 2003, Thursday

Political meetings still have a role

SECTION: Pg. 25

LENGTH: 202 words

SIR - On the very same day that W. F. Deedes asserted that "we know that
political meetings are dead" (Notebook, June 23), a public meeting was held in
the Guildhall, Salisbury, on the EU constitution.

The meeting was advertised by leaflets through letter boxes and the advertised
speakers were myself and political columnist Simon Heffer. The response led to
the 200-seat hall being full to overflowing. Fortunately, a spare room was found
in the same building into which the extra 100 could be packed, and two meetings
were held simultaneously, with Simon and myself swapping at the interval. The
audience represented a diverse cross-section of society, ranging from tradesmen
to a duke. All welcomed the opportunity to find out more about the constitution
and ask questions.

Our major parties shy away from such meetings and from the issues that really
matter to people.

Perhaps the party bosses are afraid of exposing their candidates to unscripted
questions. With opinion running high about the threat to our independence from
the constitution, we intend to organise dozens of these meetings this year.

Nigel Farage MEP (UKIP)

Lyminster, W Sussex [PS]Features [ES]

Letter to the Editor:

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                               5 of 12 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 24, 2003, Tuesday

REDWOOD IN ANTI-EU RALLY

BYLINE: JAMES HARDY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 146 words


THE Tories' position on Europe was in question last night as it emerged former
minister John Redwood is to speak at a major anti-EU rally.

The MP will share a platform with hardliners from the UK Independence Party in
September.

It is sure to fuel suspicions, unveiled by Tony Blair in The Daily Mirror last
week, of a secret Tory agenda to pull out of Europe.

Chris Bryant, chairman of the Labour Movement for Europe, said: "Redwood is
lining himself up with the hardline right-wingers who want to pull us out of
Europe.

"He doesn't need to join UKIP because the Tory Party is little more than UKIP in
drag."

Europe minister Denis MacShane added: "We now know Iain Duncan Smith's real
agenda is to march Britain to the exit door of Europe, putting jobs at risk."

A spokesman for Mr Redwood said the rally was an all-party "eurosceptic"
protest.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                               6 of 12 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 24, 2003, Tuesday

TORY RALLY AGAINST EU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 59 words


THE Tories position on Europe was in question last night as it emerged former
minister John Redwood is to speak at a major anti-EU rally.

The MP will share a platform with the UK Independence Party in September.

Chris Bryant, chairman of the Labour Movement for Europe, said: "Redwood is
lining himself up with the hardline right-wingers."

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                               7 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 19, 2003, Thursday

Consequences of adopting the EU constitution and euro

SECTION: Features; 21

LENGTH: 155 words


From Mr Brian Hughes Sir, The diatribe from Eric Pickles, Shadow Secretary of
State for Local Government and the Regions (letter, June 16), in which he
describes some alleged consequences of a European constitution, would be risible
if it did not come from a senior member of a mainstream political party. His
visions of "local councils jumping to the demands of European diktats" and of
foreign pen-pushers (who are, naturally, so much more dastardly than their
counterparts in Whitehall) deciding our laws and regulations, seem designed to
appeal to the most deluded sort of Little-Englander isolationism.

How long will it be before the regrettable migration of the Conservative Party
towards the loonier fringes of British politics reaches its logical conclusion
-a merger with the UK Independence Party?

Yours faithfully, BRIAN HUGHES, 57 Leckhampton Road, Cheltenham, Gloucestershire
GL53 0BJ.

June 16.


LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               8 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 17, 2003

Package may be a patchwork

BYLINE: Peter Hetherington

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 379 words


Behind John Prescott's proposals lies a philosophy, shared by some in the
government and rejected by others as a dangerous constitutional step into the
unknown.

The deputy prime minister sees English devolution as the final piece in a jigsaw
after the delivery of home rule to Scotland and Wales and the creation of a
Greater London authority.

But a white paper last year, which broadly set out the powers and the
limitations of elected assemblies, put the issue into a wider context. "The
English regions outside London - home for 40 million people - are now virtually
the only regions in Europe which do not enjoy some form of regional democracy or
some form of regional representation."

Delivering the Prescott package will create what critics have called a patchwork
quilt of government across England. This is because voters in only three of the
eight administrative regions - the north-east, north-west, and Yorkshire and the
Humber, with a combined population of 14.3 million - will test the concept in
referendums next year.

The remainder (East and West Midlands, eastern, south-east and south-west) may
have to wait indefinitely.

Before the referendums, likely in October next year, the boundary commission has
to review the structure of local government in the two-tier counties of
Northumberland, Durham, Cumbria, North Yorkshire, Cheshire and Lancashire. The
government insists a fully unitary system of local government must go hand in
glove with new assemblies.

The commission will present two options: should the counties remain intact as
big unitaries, absorbing district functions or should an amalgamation of
districts emerge as all-purpose authorities?

As well as delivering a verdict for or against regional assemblies electors in
the counties will be asked in a second question to decide on the structure of
local government in their patch. They will be presented with the commission's
two options.

Before the referendums, which may be conducted entirely by postal ballot, the
electoral commission will appoint campaign groups, representing the yes and no
camps - with sections of business, the Conservatives and probably the UK
Independence party all lined up against. Groups will be eligible for government
funds.


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               9 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 5, 2003

Bid to ban agents from team hotels;
SPORTS AGENDA

BYLINE: Charles Sale

SECTION: Pg. 84

LENGTH: 612 words


A LEADING football powerbroker wants agents banned from hotels used by
international teams before matches.

Dan Tana, chairman of the Serbia-Montenegro international committee, will ask
UEFA and FIFA to impose the ban following scenes in the foyer of the Leicester
Hilton this week.

Tana, a Hollywood restaurateur, former chairman of Brentford and a member of
UEFA's marketing committee, was dismayed to see a number of his Serb players
talking to agents and clubs at the hotel in the hours before Tuesday's friendly
with England.

Portsmouth manager Harry Redknapp and chairman Milan Mandaric made no secret of
their transfer talks with defender Dejan Stefanovic, while agents Paul Stretford
and Barry Silkman were among the football wheeler- dealers milling around in the
crowded lobby.

Tana said: ' It is totally ridiculous that agents are allowed to be in the same
hotel as players.

'I saw a lot our players in conversations with them, which is the worst possible
way to focus on a big match. It naturally takes their minds off the game.

'I intend to speak as soon as possible to both UEFA and FIFA about bringing in
rules that stop the players from being distracted by big-money talk on the eve
of a match.

'The agents can see the players after the game but they know most teams travel
back home straight afterwards.'

THE Lancashire branch of the Lawn Tennis Association have had the gall to ask
promoter Anders Borg to let them set up their mini-tennis operation at his
pre-Wimbledon invitation tournament in Liverpool. The event was forced indoors
after petty objections from the LTA and ATP meant Borg had to cancel his
proposed outdoor tournament because it clashed with a competition in Nottingham.
Despite this, however, Borg has given the LTA's mini-tennis the go-ahead.

ALAMSHAR is the Derby tip from the mystery pundit who every year chalks the name
of his - or her - selection on the wishing well outside the Amato pub at Epsom.

The tipster has a good record, picking five of the last eight winners, with the
remaining three horses all being placed. Alamshar, incidentally, is the 7- 2
second favourite for Saturday's race.

FRANK MALONEY, the boxing promoter and manager, will be unveiled within the next
week as the UK Independence Party's candidate in next year's election for the
Mayor of London. Maloney, whose Union Jack suits will go down well with a party
who want to take Britain out of Europe, claims his latest bid for political
office is a serious attempt and not a mere publicity stunt.

Fans go plane crazy

THE 'kick out racism' cards, turned into a squadron of paper planes by fans
bored by England's substitute- cluttered win over Serbia-Montenegro, will be
placed on seats for the European Championship qualifier against Slovakia next
week.

This time, though, the FA hope the game will be interesting enough to deflect
the fans' minds from origami.

Around 400 members of the England supporters club who paid two months in advance
for their tickets to Tuesday's match were still queueing up to collect them on
the evening of the game.

The Ticketmaster agency and the FA are blaming each other or the Royal Mail,
whose boss is former FA chief executive Adam Crozier.

THE most intriguing part of Nancy Dell'Olio's GBP 300,000-plus Hello magazine
feature was that she gave her age as 41 when there is widespread belief that
Sven Goran Eriksson's partner is at least 43. But PR tycoon Simon Astaire, who
arranged the contract, the photographer and the Rome venue, insists:'Nancy is
definitely 41.

We're the same age and I've seen her passport with the August 1961 date of
birth.'


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               10 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  June 1, 2003

HOW KINNOCK TRIED TO COVER UP CASH SCANDAL, BY MEP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 354 words


A BRITISH Euro MP claimed last night he was warned by Neil Kinnock, the European
Commission's vice-president, not to expose a string of corruption and
incompetence scandals involving Brussels bureaucrats, writes David Paul.

Jeffrey Titford alleges the former Labour Party leader issued a veiled threat to
him and other MEPs sitting on the powerful EU budgetary control committee after
a confidential discussion about the vast amounts of taxpayers' cash going
missing.

"Kinnock actually sat in on one occasion and said 'Don't you dare tell about
these kinds of things, the Parliament has ways of dealing with you', " said Mr
Titford, the UK Independence Party MEP for Britain's Eastern Region.

"I'm quite convinced that he was looking at me, amongst other people there
because they just don't want to let it out just how much is lost, the
incompetence there."

Last night a spokesman for Mr Kinnock vehemently denied the allegation.

But Christopher HeatonHarris, a British MEP who also sits on the budgetary
control committee, was beginning an investigation into the claim, which centres
on a meeting Mr Titford says was held in Brussels last June.

"I don't recall the specific incident, but all our meetings are taped, " said
Tory Mr HeatonHarris.

"I shall get the tape of that meeting at the earliest possible opportunity and
if what he claims Mr Kinnock said was said, it will be on there."

Mr Titford has not gone public with the shock information about the EU frauds
and fiddles that he says emerged during committee meetings.

"The other whistleblowers have ended up in peculiar places, sidelined, put into
jobs in other departments counting paper clips, " he told the Sunday Express.

But he claims he now knows the identity of many at the EU suspected of
corruption. "Names are bandied about, " Mr Titford said. "And every corner you
turn you come across incompetence."

Mr Kinnock's spokesman denied any type of threat had been made. "Mr Kinnock has
never said such a thing to anyone in his life. In fact he can't even recall ever
having had a conversation with Jeffrey Titford.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               11 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  June 1, 2003

FOCUS EXPOSED: BRUSSELS MANDARINS WHO TURN A BLIND EYE TO RISING TIDE OF
CORRUPTION AND WASTE; WHAT A SHAMBLES! OUR EU CONTRIBUTION IS DWARFED BY
BILLIONS THAT GO MISSING

BYLINE: By David Paul

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  11

LENGTH: 1599 words


THE shocking waste, corruption and sheer incompetence of the European Union
emerged this week as Prime Minister Tony Blair prepares to surrender more
British power to Brussels.

Euro MPs and experts on the financial blunders that riddle the EU's corridors of
power warned we will pay a dreadful price for signing up to the raft of measures
contained in the new EU constitution.

They fear the plans, which will govern everything from pensions to passports and
law and order to union power, will have a devastating effect, with even more of
the millions already contributed to Europe in taxes by hard-working Britons
being thrown away into the black hole of Brussels.

British MEP Jeffrey Titford said: "The EU has an accounting system that wouldn't
be acceptable in a school tuck shop. It already costs Britain GBP 1.3million per
hour to pour British taxpayers' money down the drain."

The EU employs 4,000 accountants who are supposed to control its GBP 65billion
annual budget yet, in 2001, the latest year for which figures are available, GBP
3billion went missing.

The lost cash is far more than Britain's total net contribution of GBP
2.2billion but MEPs on the budgetary control committee still approved the EU's
annual accounts.

They did so despite a 365-page report from the European Court of Auditors, which
refused for the eighth year running to give a formal assurance the accounts were
accurate. The ECA slammed the EU for failing to keep proper financial records
since 1994, adding: "No precise plan of action, accompanied by a realistic
timetable, has been proposed to remedy the situation."

Crime, incompetence and plain stupidity taint many aspects of the EU's
activities. Some of the worst examples involve the EU's starshaped Berlaymont
headquarters building in Brussels.

More than 3,000 commission officials were hastily cleared out of the 13-storey
building in 1991 and relocated to other sites in the city after 1,400 tons of
asbestos were found on the premises. Twelve years later the repair bill is
already 14 times higher than the original GBP 66million estimate.

The building was supposed to have re-opened in January 2000 but the latest
target is June next year. Every day the Berlaymont - which the EU rents from the
Belgian government for more than GBP 10million a year - sits empty costs EU
taxpayers an extra GBP 155,000 but, when the Sunday Express visited the building
on Thursday, nobody was working on it.

In December, the EU's anti-fraud unit found builders on the project submitting
invoices for materials that were never delivered to the site.

Belgian senator Vincent Van Quickenborn attacked the scheme as a shambles,
saying: "There has been a total lack of control. People with no experience were
put in charge for political reasons."

It's for political reasons that, once every month, the entire European
Parliament moves from Brussels to continue its business in the French city of
Strasbourg: a ludicrous waste of cash that eats up 16 per cent of the
Parliament's total annual budget.

A total of 3,000 people, including the 626 MEPs, their administration staff,
political advisors and civil servants all have to pack their bags for the
monthly trip.

Tory MEP Jonathan Evans said:

"The Parliament's meeting in Strasbourg is an unnecessary waste of everyone's
resources "To see 17 articulated trucks carry the contents of our offices from
Brussels to Strasbourg once a month is a joke."

The new European Parliament building in Strasbourg, on which MEPs lavished
almost GBP 330million, has been kitted out with showers that cost GBP 12,000
each. They use the building just 60 days a year but getting everyone there and
back to Brussels 12 times a year costs almost GBP 80million.

Some of the ways MEPs squander taxpayers' cash are almost beyond belief, like
the estimated GBP 3million spent recently producing a comic book featuring the
adventures of a pretty, buxom MEP called "Irina". A million copies of Irina's
adventures will eventually be printed in 11 languages in a bid to get young
people interested in the EU.

British Tory MEP Martin Callanan said: "The European Parliament has found its
natural level with the publication of this comic book, stuffed full of
self-congratulatory claptrap and Euro-propaganda."

The lack of control bungling Brussels officials have over the massive
agricultural budget became all too clear in 2001. Some of the worst examples
included:

French cattle farmers being sent cash grants they were not entitled to - and, in
some cases, had not even applied for - because the computer system used to
allocate the funds contained the wrong data.

British farmers claiming cash subsidies for rearing livestock they did not have
on their farms.

Greek olive oil producers getting cash grants according to how much oil they
made, despite there being no official register of oil production.

Austrian farmers, entitled to grants to help maintain pasture land, claiming for
60 per cent more pasture than they actually had. They were only caught out by an
aerial photo sweep of the whole country.

Conservative MEP Christopher Heaton-Harris said: "In 1999 the European
Commission resigned en masse because it was seen to be incompetent and unable to
clear up fraud and mismanagement in the EU. Nothing has changed."

Last Wednesday a group of senior MEPs reluctantly agreed they should be required
to provide receipts for their travelling expenses.

The loophole, unthinkable in any privately run business, has been a licence to
print money for many "fat cat" MEPs for years.

Under EU rules, they have been allowed to claim for the dearest air ticket
possible but could book a cutprice flight and pocket the difference.

It is estimated the fiddle has been worth a tax-free GBP 18,000 a year for a
British MEP making 30 journeys a year to Brussels and Strasbourg.

However, making the MEPs produce receipts is actually going to push up the EU's
total travel budget by an estimated 20 per cent next year.

The bill will rise because, now they have no incentive to travel on cheap
flights, the fat cats will book club class tickets and, under the new rules,
will also now be entitled to a cash bonus for every hour they spend travelling.

The MEPs only agreed to losing the travel expenses fiddle on condition their
annual salaries were bumped up to 100,000 euros. At current rates, that is GBP
72,000 a year.

Their wages will also soon be paid in Belgium with the Belgian authorities
taking just 14 per cent in income tax.

MEPs can charge up to GBP 100,000 a year for "administration expenses", which
includes office staff, but some employ close relatives.

There is up to GBP 45,000 more to be had in "office expenses".

Other perks include subsidies for MEPs to send their children to private
schools, discounts on the the price of cars and electrical goods and even a
discount on the price of the sex drug Viagra, thanks to the EU's mutual health
insurance scheme.

That's on top of the non-contributory pension that leaves an MEP who serves 20
years in Brussels with a 75 per cent final salary scheme, something the vast
majority of the 450million EU workers whose hardearned taxes pay the bill can
only dream of.

Dr Richard North, who is writing a book on the EU called The Great Deception,
said: "The MEPs do very well for themselves. Every one of the 87 members who
represent Britain costs us GBP 1.2million each year to run. That's a total bill
of more than GBP 90million. It would only cost GBP 60million to build, equip and
run a big teaching hospital.

"To keep a British infantry regiment of about 1,000 men in service for a year
costs about GBP 10million. So, for the price of our MEPs in Brussels, we could
have another nine battalions."

Next year, the EU's 15 member states will admit Poland, Hungary, the Czech
Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Malta and Cyprus. Some
experts have already predicted the corruption that is endemic in many of the 10
new nations will undermine the operation of the EU even further.

MEP Jeffrey Titford, of the UK Independence Party, estimates the economies of
many of the new member states are so chaotic the EU will spend GBP 10billion
just on accountants to put their books in order.

THE European Commission has insisted the new members crack down on crime and has
forced each one to sign the Council of Europe's anti-corruption conventions,
even though most of the EU's current 15 members have not done so.

Many of the MEPs in the new 10 nations will earn more than their country's Prime
Ministers.

Bizarrely, Malta is to get six MEPs representing the island's 360,000 residents.
The average British MEP has around 700,000 constituents.

Dr North said: "As things stand, Britain's MEPs have just 14 per cent of the
vote in the European Parliament. From next year, we will lose 9 MEPs while the
EU total will rise to 738. It's a grim picture."

Every day, the officials sitting on the EU's estimated 1,800 committees - not
even Brussels knows the exact figure - are extending their influence on every
aspect of British life.

Dr North added: "When we joined the old EEC in 1974, there were 13,000 pages of
European law. Most were still in French when Britain signed them, .

"I believe there are now 97,000 pages but, when I tried to find out how many
applied to Britain, I was told even the British Government doesn't know. The
Government of Britain is no longer Whitehall, it is Brussels."

Additional reporting by Martin Jay

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               12 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             June 01, 2003, Sunday

Back in the USSR for the EU's latest members At the heart of Europe

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: Pg. 30

LENGTH: 681 words

What would it take to convince you that the EU is anti-democratic? It has
brushed aside "no" votes in Denmark and Ireland. It has refused to accept the
result of an Austrian general election. Now it is proposing legislation which
could bar Eurosceptic parties from the European Parliament.

For several weeks, I and my fellow members of the constitutional affairs
committee have been chewing over a draft "Statute of European Political
Parties". The establishment of state-funded pan-European parties is something
that federalists desperately want. After all, they say, we are about to adopt a
new constitution, turning the EU into a unitary state. It would hardly be
appropriate to carry on with hundreds of little parties, each fighting a
self-contained "regional" campaign.

To qualify for recognition, a party would need to secure representation in at
least one quarter of the member states. It would have to fight elections on a
common and binding manifesto across Europe (bye-bye UKIP). It would need to
accept the EU's Charter of Fundamental Rights (bye-bye Tories). And - most
sinister of all - it would have to satisfy the other parties. If a majority of
MEPs were to decide that a party was not abiding by their definition of human
rights and democratic values, it would be debarred.

"This is exactly what our communists did," said a Polish MP as he read the text.
"They did not ban elections: we had elections all the time. They did not even
ban opposition movements, at least not by the late Seventies. All they did was
to ban the dissidents from contesting the elections."

The federalists rushed to reassure him. The measure was not aimed at mainstream
parties, they said, only at nasty ones, such as Le Pen's National Front in
France. The Pole was too polite to press the point. But afterwards he told me
that this was precisely the ruse used across the Warsaw Pact. Parties were
initially proscribed on grounds of being fascist, he said, and, before long,
this definition came to apply to everyone except the communists and their
Peasant Party allies.

I can already hear the Europhiles choking on their Sancerre. Nothing annoys them
more than mention of the European and Soviet Union in the same context. But it
is worth asking why the heirs of the Communist and Agrarian Parties of Eastern
Europe have been leading the campaign to join the EU. Could it be that, arriving
in Brussels, they feel something like nostalgia? Here, after all, is a system
run by bureaucrats, where nationalism is disdained and democratic legislatures
sidelined.

Supreme power is wielded, not by parliamentarians, but by a 20-member politburo.
The members of this politburo - Commissioners, as they are known - enjoy a
privileged life: they are ferried around in black chauffeur-driven cars, and are
exempt from several taxes. They rule by a series of five-year plans,
micro-managing decisions that could perfectly well be taken at a lower level.

The EU is not a tyranny: it does not throw its opponents into gulags or take
away their passports. But it is becoming increasingly intolerant of dissent. If
you think I exaggerate, read what the Advocate General said when Bernard
Connolly, a Commission official who was sacked after attacking the single
currency, claimed that his right to free speech had been violated. Free speech,
the judge told him, was not an absolute right. It could not be used to justify
certain offences, such as criticism of the EU, or blasphemy.

There is an easy way to prove me wrong. The EU is about to adopt a written
constitution, transforming it, legally speaking, into a single polity. In a
truly democratic system, a proposal of this magnitude would be decided by
referendum. If we are allowed a direct say, and if people vote to be part of the
new state, I promise to accept the result with good grace.

You'll never hear another peep from me about the Soviet tendency in Brussels.
But if we are not allowed to vote, Europe's constitution will be no more
legitimate than that of the USSR.

Daniel Hannan is a Conservative MEP for South-East England

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 The Telegraph Group Limited
