
                                1 of 2 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 22, 2003, Monday

Gross income

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 203 words

SIR - D. Haller (letter, Dec 20) may well be right to calculate an MEP's gross
income as pounds 249,000 a year. This is quite a gravy train, and helps to
explain why all mainstream MEPs continue to promote the EU system.

But the cost to the taxpayer is, of course, much higher.

When we take into account the duplicated parliaments in Strasbourg and Brussels,
each with its attendant fleet of limos, banks of interpreters and hordes of
bureaucrats, the bill is more like pounds 1.25 million per MEP. Then we must
remember to allow for the income required by the numerous fraudsters within the
system, and for the vast extravagances incurred through incompetence.

It has been estimated that withdrawal from the EU would leave Britain's economy
some pounds 25 billion per year better off.

Withdrawal would, it is true, create a little unemployment - among the so-called
political elite, including all 87 British MEPs, plus commissioners Neil Kinnock
and Chris Patten.

You can rest assured that, should we be given the chance, we three UKIP MEPs
will become turkeys voting for Christmas.

Graham Booth MEP

Nigel Farage MEP

Jeffrey Titford MEP

Paignton, Devon [PS]Features [ES]

Letter to the Editor:

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                                2 of 2 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          December 3, 2003, Wednesday

The Red Ensign may be replaced with one incorporating the EU flag. Does the
proposal make you angry?

SECTION: Features; 33

LENGTH: 984 words


A flagging tradition

NOT content with destroying 90 per cent of Britain's fishing fleet, the EU now
proposes to rub salt in the wound by requiring our merchant ships to include the
dreaded ring of stars on the Red Ensign. This is one humiliation too far. After
a lifetime of refusal to belong to any political party (because none of them has
the monopoly of all wisdom), I have now joined the UK Independence Party as it
is the only party dedicated to Britain's withdrawal from this corrupt and
undemocratic organisation.

In her article in your paper recently, Clare Short asked: "What is the point of
the EU?" What, indeed? If we withdraw and negotiate a fair trading agreement,
the £15 million per day (net) we currently hand to Brussels could be used to
rebuild our fishing industry.

I want my country back.

Gerry Hanson, Iver Heath, Buckinghamshire.

You can't be serious.

NO, I do not see red over this proposal, but your reporting of it certainly does
enrage me. There you go again, stirring up fear and loathing of the EU on the
basis of a trivial matter. Here we have one MEP, out of more than 600, from one
of the smallest parties, in a small and obscure committee, making a silly
proposal which will get nowhere. This is blown up into an "EU design" and a
"threat from Brussels". Alarmist quotes are extracted from innocent bystanding
Europhobes, and your readers are incited to join them in seeing red.

It is as if Die Welt reported an early day motion put down by a loony MP at
Westminster as "London threatens to quit EU".

I wish you would use your space, and the talents of the expert and very
professional reporters who wrote this piece, to inform us of serious issues
under debate by serious people in Brussels.

Peter Pooley, Alresford, Hampshire.

I'm a believer.

EVEN though I'm only 16, I'm a true believer in British customs and traditions,
and I think it would be an absurd idea, especially as Britain and its Empire and
Navy were the envy of the rest of Europe.

Gareth Essex, Leicester.

One small problem.

I SHOULD be proud to fly such an ensign from my yacht. But the defaced Blue
Ensign that I used to fly could present a problem of conversion.

Ron Lampard, Whitby, North Yorkshire.

Show resistance.

FOR the EU flag to be superimposed upon our national naval ensign would be the
ultimate humiliation for our country, and it must never be allowed to happen.

Already we have lost our traditional British passport -the proud, large,
reassuring dark blue document being replaced by something which looks like a
building society passbook. The politicians -both Tory and Labour -have created
treaty after treaty in favour of European federation and union, and unless we
stop now, and show our resistance to this process, we will be conquered.

Did the men of our Royal Navy risk life and limb in the South Atlantic in 1982
simply so that some little desk-bound dictator could snuff out the British
national identity with a stroke of a pen? If this shameful Euro-flag scheme is
ever made compulsory, I for one would be prepared to go to prison to defy it.

Stuart Millson, Maidstone, Kent.

An act of vandalism.

THIS proposal is little short of heresy and I am appalled to learn that such
vandalism should have been supported by a British MEP. The world recognises the
worth of the Red Duster and the addition of a circle of gold stars would do
nothing to enhance its value. The proposal makes me see red.

John Funnell, Dover.

Ignorance is bliss.

IF THE proposal is pursued, I suggest we do what the French and Germans have
done over the single currency Stability Pact: agree completely and ignore
entirely.

Trevor Osbourn, Saffron Walden.

Deepest impact.

THE proposal is excellent, but I would go further. The EU symbol should be 99
per cent of the flag and the red bit just 1 per cent to reflect current
realities.

Furthermore, it should be compulsory to fly the EU flag outside every shop,
farm, local government building, and most specially, a very large one draped
over the Houses of Parliament. Only then will people understand the impact of
the 100,000 regulations that have been quietly implemented.

Ian Proctor, UK Independence Party, St Austell, Cornwall.

Stuck in the past.

I LAMENT the fact that the predominant attitude towards Europe and our EU
partners in large sections of the British media, and I fear also of many British
people, is stuck in a time-warp around 1945. I am perfectly happy to see the EU
flag on the Red Ensign, just as I am proud to display an EU flag on my (German)
car. After all, the record of the nation states was hardly exemplary when it
came to maintaining peace on our continent. The people of my parents' and
grandparents' generations must bitterly regret so many years spent fighting
wars.

Thankfully, the important issues of the day are now fought out in words around a
table in Brussels, rather than with weapons in battlefields.

Sadly, memories are very short about why the EU was set up in the first place.

Vive l'Europe!

Stuart King, Buckinghamshire.

Creeping federalism.

THE ensign is the naval flag of the British merchant fleet. It is not a European
fleet. I'm not a Little Englander. I am, however, British and make no apologies
for that fact. By all means let us be part of an economic EU which benefits all
within such a union, but never let us allow our identity to be diluted by those
who seek to establish a federal state by stealth.

A. Hewitson, austinhewitson@chjefferson.co.uk

European debt.

MAY I suggest, instead of placing the European flag on the Red Ensign, that the
Union Jack be placed in the top left-hand corner of the European flag, rather
like the design of the Australian flag.

After all, the Europeans owe their freedom and democracy to us.

R. Welding, rnwelding@hotmail.com


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited
