
                               1 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 March 29, 2003

'Disloyal' Portillo faces grassroots bid to unseat him

BYLINE: Michael Clarke

SECTION: Pg. 44

LENGTH: 241 words


MICHAEL Portillo is facing a rank-and-file bid to oust him as an MP, it emerged
yesterday.

Tory activists in his central London constituency are to seek a vote of no
confidence in him at the local party's annual meeting on Monday.

They accuse Mr Portillo of continuing disloyalty to the party leadership.

The last straw was his attack on Iain Duncan Smith last month over his sacking
of three senior Tory officials.

Now some members of Mr Portillo's Kensington and Chelsea constituency are trying
to make his position untenable before an attempt to deselect him as Tory
candidate ahead of the next general election.

They dislike what they claim is his plotting against successive leaders, and his
concentration on his TV career at what they say is the expense of the local
party.

The former Cabinet minister presents a BBC TV political show.

One local party member said: 'He is an elitist media politician.' Another said:
'He was overtly disloyal to Hague and now he is being disloyal to IDS.'

The rebels have been boosted by a leafleting campaign demanding 'Portillo must
go'.

The pamphlets carry the name of Henry Curteis, a former member of the UK
Independence Party, who lives in Shropshire.

The chairman of the Kensington and Chelsea party, Councillor Shireen Ritchie,
said: 'This leaflet is not produced by anyone in the constituency and it does
not have the support of any of the local officers.


LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PORTILLO: ACCUSED OF DISLOYALTY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               2 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 29, 2003, Saturday

The comedian of errors

BYLINE: Jeff Dawson

SECTION: Features; Times Magazine 14

LENGTH: 2815 words


Rowan Atkinson's career has been defined by his ability to achieve spectacular
success with his portrayals of spectacular failures. Now a new name is about to
be added to his canon of bumbling comic creations

Brompton cemetery, west London, in the shadow of Stamford Bridge football
stadium, is an overgrown, ramshackle affair. Its Garden of Rest credentials are
not aided by its situation beneath the Heathrow flight path. And then there are
the interloping and fragrant "gentlemen of the street", whose Special Brew
Tourette-isms compete with the screams of the jets and wailing sirens. On a
lumpy patch of grass between the wonky gravestones, one wiry chap paces around
in a circle. Around and around he goes, pounding mercilessly - shoulders
hunched; bottom lip gurning; arms swinging disjointedly, while he burbles like
an idiot savant. Oh, and he's waving a gun.

"Probably best not to talk to Rowan right now," says someone. "He tends to get
quite, you knowI absorbed."

Atkinson's frenzy has been prompted by a break in the weather on his new film,
Johnny English. The slate grey sky has been punctuated by a troublesome burst of
sun, you see, messing up the continuity. The crew take five; director Peter
Howitt sprawls on the grass; but still Atkinson goes through his motions -
pacing, sitting, standing, gibbering, more pacing.

"The word genius is thrown around rather loosely, but Rowan certainly fits into
that category," says Howitt, best known for Sliding Doors. "But it requires a
lot of work. And he battles with it and he struggles with it and he works very
hard at it. It requires a lot of application."

Not the Nine o'Clock News; the Blackadders; love him or loathe him, Mr Bean.
There is no questioning Atkinson's credentials. Now there's a new character -
Her Majesty's Secret Servant, Johnny English. Actually, English is not a fresh
conceit at all. Remember those telly adverts for Barclaycard, with Atkinson as
the bungling international man of mystery - shooting himself with a
tranquilliser dart; setting fire to a rug in an Arabian bazaar (and always
bailed out by his subordinate's credit card)? That character is now the subject
of a movie - 26 million quid's worth. In the big-screen adventure, Special Agent
English will keep the British end up against Gallic megalomaniac Sauvage (a camp
John Malkovich). There's sterling and pert assistance from Natalie Imbruglia,
too, in her first film role.

In today's scene, English has rumbled a plot to steal the Crown Jewels, which he
believes have been hidden in a coffin. When filming resumes, Atkinson/English
interrupts a burial service, jumps on the casket, tap dances along it, and
insults the mourners oh-so-knowingly (until informed by sidekick, Ben Miller,
that the funeral party is, in fact, genuine). It's straight from that tradition
of British comic eccentrics whose pomposity is inversely proportional to their
competence - Fawlty or Rigsby, Mainwaring or Brent, the list goes on - and this
time there is no Barclaycard. "Credit cards are conspicuous by their absence,"
quips Atkinson. "They (Barclays) have given us the right to base it on the
character who started in their commercials, though I think they're keeping it at
arm's length, quite reasonably, for the time being."

Off duty, Atkinson is exceedingly polite, quite charming and softly spoken.

Listen hard and you can just make out a trace of native Newcastle beneath the
public school diction (he went to Durham Cathedral Choristers' School with one
Blair, Anthony). In trim shape, with close-cropped greying hair, he looks good
for his 48 years. With intense browny, hazel eyes he is also more handsome than
he allows himself to be portrayed - like Jim Carrey in that regard, the facial
gymnastics masking discomfort at being just plain natural. The overwhelming
sense is of a man who is incredibly shy. Indeed, flip through the cuttings on
Atkinson and interviews are rare items; the cards positively welded to his
chest.

"I suppose I don't think I've got anything interesting to say," he muses.

"I can talk about my work a bit, which is the only thing I would ever want to
talk about, but once you talk about thatI" Which makes it all the more
significant that, the last time the world was traumatised by international
events, Atkinson found himself the anointed tub-thumper against David Blunkett's
bill on religious intolerance, citing that its knee-jerk constitution (in the
wake of September 11) would have proscribed such things as Monty Python's Life
of Brian, or even - his pet favourite - that old Not the Nine o'Clock News item:
a clip of praying Muslims accompanied by the voiceover "And the search goes on
for the Ayatollah Khomeini's contact lens."

"Well I wrote a letter (to The Times)," he says, quibbling with the suggestion
that his criticism had been vocal.

Manual then. He laughs. "I haven't much to say about that letter, except that I
was inspired to write it and felt as though it were worth writing. I thought it
was a non-political issue which was becoming a political football, and therefore
it's sometimes best staking your claim to a view."

Johnny English can hardly place itself in the front rank of satire, but as a
Bond spoof, and with an immensely successful film company behind it (Working
Title, who made Four Weddings & a Funeral, Notting Hill and Bridget Jones's
Diary, not to mention Bean: The Ultimate Disaster Movie), they're already
talking about a sequel.

There were 17 Barclaycard ads which ran from 1991-96. Atkinson's character was
then called Richard Latham, an operative of MI7. "Even though they were 60
seconds of admitted product advancement they had a mini-movie feel to them
because they were shot with high production values and with good performances in
exotic locations," explains Atkinson. "Suddenly we thought, 'If the character
can work in 60 seconds, maybe he can work in a longer format.'"

Actually, Atkinson was once in a Bond film, 1983's Never Say Never Again, as
bumbling civil servant Nigel Small-Fawcett. Though he won't thank you for
reminding him. "God, yes," he groans. "It's one of those roles you look back on
not with pride, I'm afraid. And the problem with Bond movies, if you happen not
to like your contribution, they're guaranteed to be on TV at least once a year."

Incidents like this cooled him towards cinema, preferring the medium of the
small screen and, for a while, back in the Eighties, a bout of stand-up and
stage work. Johnny English and Bean: The Ultimate Disaster Movie, he points out,
are the only films in which he's starred. Otherwise it's been cameos such as
Maybe Baby (for mate Ben Elton); The Tall Guy (for pals Richard Curtis and Mel
Smith); the spoonerising vicar in Four Weddings (Curtis again); the voice of
Zazu the hornbill in The Lion King. Atkinson was also the baddie, Mondavarious,
in Scooby Doo.

"If I'm going to shoulder the comedic responsibility in a film, I'd much rather
be instrumental in its creation," he says. "That is undoubtedly why the films I
have done in a lead role have been films that I have helped to develop. It's
very important to me to retain that control over the creative process, because I
think, in the end, I'm probably the best judge of what I can do best."

It has led him to working, largely, with a tight-knit group of collaborators -
John Lloyd (producer of Not the Nine o'Clock News, co-creator of the Johnny
English character); Smith (from the same old gang); to staggeringly successful
ends with Curtis and Elton who, jointly, wrote most of the various Blackadder
series, with Curtis penning Mr Bean and Elton knocking out the police sitcom The
Thin Blue Line.

"Those people know what I can do and what I'm good at," says Atkinson.

"Whereas someone who's only looking at your work, they sometimes do not
understand what makes you tick. I don't think I'm a particularly easy person to
cast."

And then there is old Oxford University chum Peter Bennett-Jones and his PBJ
management outfit (responsible for the careers of Dawn French, Lenny Henry,
Harry Enfield and others). Bennett-Jones and Atkinson are co-directors of
production company Tiger Aspect, which makes programmes such as Rescue Me, The
Vicar of Dibley and Teachers. Tiger Aspect's development deal with Working Title
has allowed the PBJ stable to foray into movies - as with Enfield's Kevin and
Perry Go Large - and mount original projects such as the phenomenally successful
Billy Elliot.

"The only reason I entered that, it wasn't really a desire to be a major media
entrepreneur," Atkinson laughs. "It was actually purely a desire to maintain
control over Mr Bean. I have to say, if I have to be honest, I don't take a lot
of interest in it."

Nonetheless, Tiger Aspect has made Atkinson a considerably wealthy man. Mr Bean,
the television series, which began in 1989, was a hit in more than 200 countries
- the non-verbal antics making it, like Benny Hill before, universally
marketable (in Japan, Atkinson is almost an immortal). The film spin-off grossed
around $ 240 million, making Atkinson Britain's most successfulcomic export.
Merchandising, computer games... Bean is an industry in its own right.
Atkinson's personal fortune stands at about Pounds 60 million. He is currently
the 14th highest-paid entertainment personality in the UK, by far and away the
most wealthy comic (ahead of, surprisingly, Jasper Carrott, whose own stash
comes from his stake in Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?). The recent Bean cartoon
series will probably net Atkinson a further Pounds 20 million.

It has led Atkinson to some rather expensive hobbies. His Oxfordshire spread,
which he shares with wife, Sunetra, and their children, Ben (ten) and Lily
(eight), is also home to some flash "motors", not least a Pounds 650,000 McLaren
F1. Go-karting around the tennis courts is a daily ritual.

Not all automotive activity goes according to plan. In July 2001, Atkinson wrote
off his Pounds 80,000 Aston Martin V8 at the Croft Racing Circuit, Durham.
Though his motor skills have served him better - most crucially, last year, on a
family holiday to Kenya. On a private charter flight from Mombasa to Nairobi,
the pilot passed out, sending the plane plunging out of control 16,000ft over
the African plain. Atkinson, with no flying experience, took the joystick and
wrestled the twin-engine Cessna under control, eventually slapping the pilot
awake, the family ultimately delivered to a safe landing. The rather understated
headlines ("Mr Bean saves the day" and suchlike) did not convey the full horror.
It's a mark of Atkinson's diffidence that not only does he not brag about it, he
won't even talk about it.

Such application of the Bean label is typical, dismissed as a frivolous bit of
clownery. Not "proper" work like Blackadder. Mel Smith, who directed Bean's
movie incarnation has always been scornful of the British critical
establishment's reaction, especially considering Atkinson's rubbery nincompoop
has won just about every international television award going.

Atkinson is more sanguine.

"Those people who like Blackadder tend to be less enthusiastic about Bean," he
concedes, acknowledging that these two sides to his work have granted him almost
parallel careers. "But in the end these things find their own audience. There's
something so sort of simplistic about Bean, so sort of accessible, it means that
if you like your comedy less accessible, then clearly it's not going to be your
kind of thing. Critique is always dominated by those who enjoy using words and
therefore they are, by definition, more likely to enjoy comedy which exploits
and plays with words. There's none of that in Bean, so there's bound to be a
degree to which people will never latch on to it. But it's never been something
that's bothered me."

It was actually through physical comedy that Atkinson started out, in 1976,
approximating a Bean-ish character into the revue at Oxford, where he juggled
the comedy with an MSc in Engineering Science at Queen's College.

He's never had any formal mime or drama training. "I suppose it's just an
aptitude which has grown out of enthusiasm for physical expression," he says.
"But it's something I think I can do and I suppose I've admired similar skills
in others and been inspired to copy them."

He admits to Jacques Tati as his most obvious influence, and pays a debt to
Chaplin, Stan Laurel and the other slapstick proponents once the staple of
Saturday morning telly. "It's been quite sobering actually, even during my
lifetime, the way that Charlie Chaplin, who was still a sort of demigod of
comedy when I was very young, is now hardly known to anyone under 30," he
mourns. "You used to have Charlie Chaplin films on television all the time when
I was young, but you don't see them any more. You know, it's just Live and
Kicking."

A hit on the Edinburgh Fringe and with some promising work on Radio 3, in 1979
Atkinson was invited, with Mel Smith, Chris Langham (later replaced by Griff
Rhys Jones) and Pamela Stephenson, to participate in a satirical show for the
BBC - the Corporation desperate to emulate That Was the Week That Was, still the
satirical benchmark from a generation before. Though tucked away on BBC2, Not
the Nine O'Clock News saw up to 10 million viewers a week tuning in to the
cocktail of spoof news items, Pythonesque sketches and compulsory musical number
- Constable Savage, Gerald the Gorilla, the Trucker song, you name it. Its
timing couldn't have been more perfect, in the vanguard of the "right on" comedy
movement, locking horns with Thatcherism.

"And Reaganism," adds Atkinson, "a sort of dual prong of those two."

Atkinson then was also a fixture of the stage jamboree, The Secret Policeman's
Ball, itself in aid of Amnesty International. "In many ways I would like to do
more political satire," he says. "Sometimes you see news items, where you think,
'God, wouldn't it be great to do a sketch about that. It's really crying out for
someone to tell it the way it is.' But you've got to have the right platform,
and the right platform doesn't exist at the moment." (His only link with
politics these days seems to be with rogue brother, Rodney, a former UK
Independence Party candidate who wrote a book called Fascist Europe Rising.)
Parody was certainly a key component of Blackadder, though of the historical
variety - the medieval, Tudor and Regency periods coming in for some sly
revisionism. Though by the fourth and darkest series, Blackadder Goes Forth (set
in the First World War), which aired in 1989, the socio-political commentary had
grown powerful. Do not underestimate Blackadder's gallows humour. Legend has it
that, scrawled on the Eastern side of the Berlin Wall was the graffito, "Don't
worry, Baldrick has a cunning plan."

Blackadder resurfaces on occasion - that Christmas Carol episode; the Millennium
special, Back & Forth. More recently Sir Osmond Darling-Blackadder, Keeper of
Her Majesty's Lawnsprinkler, was seen promoting the Party at the Palace. It is
Blackadder which will remain Atkinson's signature - a classic they'll be
replaying in 100 years.

Strangely though, it is something of which he is reluctant to talk. Well, let's
try this - it's an admittedly obvious question, but is the series definitely
dead?

"I suspect it is," he muses. "I mean you must never say never. I think we'd be
hard-pushed to have to match the quality of old. I think it was just, you know,
a happy coincidence that certain creative forces came together in one place in
one decade."

And with that he's off, dancing on his coffin again.

A week later I reconnect with Atkinson at St Alban's Abbey, which is doubling
for Westminster Abbey in the climactic coronation scene of Johnny English. It is
the final couple of days of shooting. Atkinson's got his children with him this
time, dutifully indulging them between takes, getting Howitt to take their
picture - Ben wearing the crown, Lily holding the royal sceptre. They are as
impeccably well-mannered as their father.

Had I come the day before I would have seen Atkinson swinging on a harness in a
big action stunt. "You've come on one of the less spectacular days," he jokes,
buoyed by end-of-term spirit. "A spectacular day for extras but not so much for
the action." (There are indeed, a lot of them, several hundred, swelling the
congregation.) Johnny English, in white tuxedo, strolls out before them, having
delivered Britannia from evil - the oversized crown wedged down over his ears,
lip jutting dementedly again. The crowd rise as one to acclaim him.

As Stephen Fry, best man at Atkinson's wedding, declared, "It's as if God had an
extra jar of comic talent and, for a joke, gave it to a nerdy, anoraked,
northern chemist..."

Johnny English opens nationwide on April 11


LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               3 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 27, 2003, Thursday

Inadequacy of EU accounts system

SECTION: Features; 23

LENGTH: 350 words


From Mr Jeffrey Titford, MEP for Eastern Region (UK Independence Party)

Sir, Brian Gray, the Chief Accounting Officer of the European Commission
(letter, March 22), quite naturally leaps to his own defence. However, his claim
that "every euro and every cent entrusted to the Commission is correctly and
accurately accounted for" really is straining credibility, particularly as 22
out of 36 director-generals of EU departments signed off their own budget
statements "with reservations".

In addition, the recently revealed memo from Jules Muis, the EU's own auditor,
to Neil Kinnock's office dated May 21, 2002, includes the following:

The Commission lacks the necessary skill base, both in accounting and controls,
as well as, I speculate, in project management for a project of this complexity
and scale ...

This briefing would not be complete without pointing out the circumstances under
which the new accountant (Marta Andreasen - the whistleblower) is presently
working - ie, in a perceived intrinsically hostile work environment, where she
has to get control over a department haunted by a profound lack of qualified
staff, a host of vacancies/absentees in crucial functions, an entrenched
mindset...a power ambience totally catered to the DG who himself has strongly
opposed her appointment in the first place ...

The substance of Ms Andreasen's communications so far seem factually substantive
and correct.

In marked contrast to Mr Gray's certainties, it is clear to those who have
examined it at first hand that the EU has an accounting "system" that wouldn't
be acceptable in a school tuck-shop. The fact that Her Majesty's Government
continues to pour some Pounds 1.3 million per hour of British taxpayers' money
into such a black hole of fraud, corruption and incompetence is entirely
unacceptable.

Yours faithfully,

JEFFREY TITFORD

(Member, European Parliament's

Budgetary Control Committee;

Group for a Europe of

Democracies and Diversities),

145 New London Road,

Chelmsford, Essex CM2 0QT.

ukipeast@globalnet.co.uk

March 24.


LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               4 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 22, 2003, Saturday

EU accounting systems

SECTION: Features; 29

LENGTH: 195 words


From Mr Graham Booth, MEP for South West Region (United Kingdom Independence
Party) Sir, You touched on a very sensitive issue in Brussels (leading article,
March 17) and it will be interesting to see if Neil Kinnock can survive much
longer in the face of continued and justified criticism.

However, I have expressed my concern to our own UK Auditor-General, Sir John
Bourn, at the apparent anomaly that exists with regard to the role of his office
and UK contributions to the EU.

It is against Treasury rules to pass public money to any body that is not
correctly audited, and yet the Court of Auditors of the EU has qualified the
accounts for the last eight years.

How can it be correct for the UK Government to pass Pounds 11 billion a year of
public money to the EU? Is there an EU law which takes precedence over this
Treasury rule? Does the Auditor-General have dispensation from his
responsibility in such matters?

My questions to Sir John have been unanswered in over a month.

Yours faithfully, GRAHAM BOOTH (Group for a Europe of Democracies and
Diversities), 41 Oyster Bend, Paignton, Devon TQ4 6NL.

gbooth@ukip.org

March 18.


LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               5 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             March 09, 2003, Sunday

DIRECTIVE DISARMED Agency soft soaps its way to a crafty conclusion Christopher
Booker's Notebook

BYLINE: By Christopher Booker

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 426 words

At the beginning of last week Linda Sutherland, who runs a tiny business making
hand-made soaps on the remote north-west coast of the Hebridean Isle of Lewis,
faced a nightmare. Like hundreds of other hand-made soap-makers she had just
learnt that, under regulations implementing an EU pollution directive, she would
need a permit to stay in business. This would cost her anything up to pounds
40,000, plus pounds 3,000 a year thereafter. Her business's annual turnover is
barely pounds 15,000. It seemed she and all other specialist soap-makers were
doomed.

On Tuesday evening an e-mail from Linda describing her plight was passed to me
by Idris Francis, of the UK Independence Party. I then read the EU's directive
96/61 on "integrated pollution prevention and control", wondering how the minute
amounts of sodium hydroxide Linda uses to make her scented soaps could
constitute what the directive describes as "significant pollution".

On Wednesday I spoke to the United Kingdom Cleaning Products Industry (UKCPI),
which represents such industrial giants as Procter and Gamble, and Unilever, but
which had agreed to act for the "micro-soap manufacturers" in dealing with the
Environment Agency, responsible for the regulations. It confirmed that there
seemed to be no exemption for "micro-businesses" and that the rules would apply
to everyone.

I also spoke to Melinda Coss, "the Delia Smith of hand-made soap", whose book on
soap-making has sold 250,000 copies. She employs 20 people in Lampeter,
mid-Wales, making more than 60 varieties of soap, which is sold in Tesco and
other supermarkets. She was equally despairing at the regulations, fearing that
her business could not survive.

I then, as advised by the UKCPI, put the soap-makers' case to the Environment
Agency's "chemical sectors co-ordinator", asking why this directive should doom
an entire craft industry.

Next day, Ceri Davies, the agency's chemicals policy manager, told me that for
the law to apply, three tests would have to be met. Was production "on an
industrial scale", did its process involve "plant or machinery to control or
contain a chemical reaction", was it for "commercial purposes"?

The agency had now decided that, since hand-made soap-making did not meet the
first two requirements, it could be excluded from the regulations. I told her
this would make several hundred people extremely happy, as was confirmed when I
told Linda Sutherland and Melinda Coss. Would that all EU directives nightmares
had such a quick and happy ending.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               6 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 8, 2003

Maltese decide in knife-edge EU vote: All eyes on tiny island as union
enlargement faces first obstacle

BYLINE: Ian Black in Valletta

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1033 words


Eddie Fenech-Adami paused dramatically before delivering the line the crowd was
waiting to hear. "The right choice for Malta is to join the European Union," the
prime minister roared as thousands cheered and waved a forest of blue and
yellow-starred flags under a high crescent moon.

Emotions were running high on Thursday night at the final mass rallies before
today's vote on EU membership, the most momentous decision the island has taken
since independence from Britain four decades ago.

The referendum is the first being held in any of the 10 countries set to join
the union next year: Malta may be the minnow of the new intake, but bigger
countries, such as Poland, are watching closely to see what its 380,000 people
decide.

Maltese laughingly describe themselves as passionate and deeply divided about
football, saints' days, party loyalty - and Europe. This tense and occasionally
nasty campaign has proved the point.

Mr Fenech-Adami and his conservative Nationalist party argue fiercely that EU
membership is a national issue, not a party one. "We can choose to be part of
the world's most powerful economic bloc," says the iva (yes) camp. "Or we can
choose to be irrelevant to the rest of the world for the rest of our lifetime."

The man called simply "Eddie" by his admiring supporters had put it more
succinctly: "No island is an island."

The le (no) camp, led by the opposition Labour party, wants Malta to have a
loose but hazily defined "partnership" with the union, to be a "Mediterranean
Switzerland" which somehow keeps its options open and holds Brussels and its
laws at a distance.

Polls predict a close result, with attention focusing on a few thousand floating
voters and worries that the "no" side will claim the result is invalid. That is
a distinct possibility since they are calling on supporters to vote against,
abstain or spoil their ballots. Turnout will be crucial.

Formally, the referendum is non-binding, but it is unlikely that a clear "yes"
could be ignored even if Labour wins general elections that could be held as
early as next month.

Malta, with a GDP of about 50% of the average among the 15 member states,
applied to join the EU under the nationalists in 1990, but the bid was suspended
under the 1996-98 Labour government.

Now, as then, Labour is led by Alfred Sant, author of Confessions of a Maltese
European, the fruit of the five years he spent with his country's mission in
Brussels.

But Mr Sant is no diplomat. When Gunther Verheugen, the EU's German commissioner
for enlargement, visited recently, the Labour leader talked of the damage done
by Luftwaffe bombs during the second world war. He dismissed the ex-president of
the European parliament Nicole Fontaine as a bossy "Taliban".

Pro-EU supporters complain of the scaremongering familiar from Denmark's
referendum on the euro and Ireland's on ratifying the Nice treaty.

Labour attacked the EU working time directive for banning overtime. It does no
such thing.

Mr Sant named Maltese companies which he claimed would be threatened by mem
bership. Most quickly countered that they saw new opportunities in the single
market.

The anti-EU campaigners invoked restrictions on hunting, a non-existent danger
of legalised abortion and a threat that the neutrality of what was once imperial
Britain's unsinkable island fortress would become a modern bastion for an "EU
army".

And figures for the pounds 120m in cash Malta is to receive in its first two
years of membership were creatively massaged downwards. "Sant has made a
political issue out of this referendum," said Mark Vella, a retired bank manager
at Thursday's rally. "But it should be about the good of Malta."

The "yes" campaign has been accused of dominating the media, with anger directed
at the European commission office and the government-funded information centre.

"The referendum is a farce," said Sharon Ellul Bonici, leader of the No2EU
group. "People believe the EU is giving us a blank cheque. It's all lies but
they've been repeated so many times people believe them."

The Maltese are split into those who fear staying out will leave them an
isolated backwater and those, cheered on by Europhobes like the UK Independence
party, who are fixated on outdated notions of national sovereignty.

"We've been dominated by others for 2,000 years," said Charlie Kitcher, a
technician. "The EU has a lot of laws that are not suitable for small
countries."

Carmelo, a hotel employee, disagreed. "It is better being in the EU than having
Malta full of Arabs."

The "no" supporters want to wait for a better deal, but they are unlikely to get
one. Malta did very well in the negotiating endgame at the Copenhagen summit,
winning 77 special arrangements and transitional periods from EU law.

It has seven years to regulate the influx of workers, a special zone to manage
its seas and a unique package on agriculture. And Maltese, unlike Irish or
Luxembourgeois, won recognition as an official EU language.

"The thing about being on an island is that it's sometimes like a bubble," one
diplomat said. "What's at stake here is the future of Malta. Europe is not going
to grind to a halt if the 'no' camp wins. But this place might well regret it."

Hunting under fire

'Say no to EU' banners are draped across the facade of the Malta Labour party's
social club in Valletta, and the talk inside is of rules from Brussels that will
spoil the sport of the island's hunters.

Hunting and trapping have been part of the Maltese landscape since Phoenician
times. Quail, turtledoves and woodcock are considered fair game for the island's
17,000 licensed hunters, many of them Labour supporters. Some 200,000 birds are
blasted out of the sky every year on their way from Russia to Africa.

Such activities may soon become a thing of the past. In the EU, the government
would get seven years to comply.

It is a highly sensitive issue. 'As often happens with compromise, no one is
happy,' sighs an EU official. 'The environment groups went mad and the hunters
said they would vote "no". The whole point is sustainability, but it's not seen
that way here.'


LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               7 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 7, 2003, Friday

MALTA DIVIDED AS 'NEW EUROPE' LINES UP TO VOTE

BYLINE: STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS Eddie Fenech Adami, Malta's Prime Minister,
campaigning for a 'yes' vote in Valletta Lino Azzopardi

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 599 words


CAMPAIGNING FOR a referendum on whether Malta should join the European Union
ended last night, with a knife-edge result predicted and a row breaking out over
interference from foreign eurosceptics.

Voters cast their ballots tomorrow in the first of the polls among nations due
to join the EU next May. Not only is the population of the tiny Mediterranean
nation deeply split on the issue, but Malta is the only one of the 10 would-be
EU entrants where the main opposition party is against joining.

A recent poll showed 49 per cent in favour of joining as opposed to 23.3 per
cent against, however 16 per cent are undecided and 12.7 per cent refused to
reply, all of which has made the outcome highly unpredictable in a country where
elections are generally decided on a tiny margin.

A "no" would be acutely embarrassing for Brussels and would encourage
eurosceptics in the nine other applicant countries, where opponents of EU
membership are hoping for a "domino effect".

In most of the mainly ex-Communist nations of eastern Europe due to join the EU,
public opinion is more clearly in favour of membership, with few big political
parties opposed. However, several governments, including that of Poland, the
largest applicant nation, fear persuading voters to turn out will be an uphill
task.

With many doubters in Malta likely to spoil their ballots or abstain, anything
less than 150,000 positive votes will be portrayed as a moral victory for the
"no" campaigners.

Backed by most of the political establishment, the pro-EU Prime Minister Eddie
Fenech Adami has campaigned hard for a "yes". He told the BBC World Service that
the former British colony, which gained independence just 40 years ago, stood to
gain "a voice in one of the most important blocs of countries". "Yes"
campaigners have also pointed to the economic benefits to the tourism trade if
Malta adopts the euro.

But there has been tough rhetoric from Alfred Sant, the leader of the opposition
Labour Party. When he won elections seven years ago, Mr Sant put the island's
bid on ice.

This time he has proposed an enhanced partnership with the EU but not full
membership, while keeping a visa-free policy towards North Africa. EU rules, he
argues, "have been drafted over 40-50 years by big continental countries.
Applying all those policies 100 per cent to Malta does not fit with our
circumstances".

The campaign has been given added spice by a row over the role of a Tory Euro
MP. Daniel Hannan, MEP for the South-east of England and a Daily Telegraph
leader writer, visited Malta at the same time as two fellow MEPs, both UK
Independence Party members.

Last night Mr Hannan denied that he was campaigning for a "no", adding: "I was
simply there to describe what it is like being in the EU." The highly Catholic
country, where abortion is illegal and divorce does not exist, prides itself in
its distinctive way of life. Its 17,000 hunters are furious at the prospect of
restraints on their right to catch migrating birds.

An exemption to placate the bird-catchers was among 77 so called "derogations"
from European law secured by Maltese negotiators during protracted accession
talks.

Nevertheless the "no" campaign has scored successes with warnings that Malta's
prized neutrality will be compromised and that VAT harmonisation will hike
prices.

Despite some anxiety in Brussels, few expect a "no" vote to have a serious
impact. In the last wave of EU enlargement, in the mid-1990s, Norwegian voters
rejected membership while Sweden, Finland and Austria voted in favour.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                               8 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 6, 2003

Policy & Politics: British MEPs accused of interfering in Malta poll

BYLINE: Ian Black in Valletta

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 501 words


British MEPs have been accused of interfering in Malta's referendum on EU
membership by campaigning for a no vote in a fateful choice for the
Mediterranean island.

The people of the former British colony go to the polls on Saturday after a
bitterly fought campaign which has seen the governing Nationalist party, which
is pro-EU, facing the opposition Labour party and the country's largest trade
union.

Daniel Hannan, a Conservative MEP, appears to have broken ranks with his own
party by speaking openly against the enlargement of the union.

Mr Hannan, a former Daily Telegraph leader writer, warned that Malta would be
"controlled by Brussels" if it joined.

"The UK is not happy about being an EU member so Malta should enter with its
eyes wide open. If you vote yes then Malta will find out what Britain did - that
you cannot get out of it, so the people need to know what they are doing."

A Tory spokesman in the European parliament insisted Mr Hannan had taken an
"individual initiative" to back Malta's no campaign. "Conservative policy is
that we will back any country that wants to join the EU, but it is down to
people to decide," he said.

The yes camp did not formally object but there is private disquiet. "Some people
really didn't like it," said a Nationalist party official. "They would rather
not have foreigners telling us what to do."

Malta is the first of the 10 countries invited to join the EU in its biggest
ever enlargement in May 2004 to hold a referendum - amid concern in Brussels
that a no vote here would send a dangerously negative signal to others.

Anti-enlargement sentiments were also expressed by MEPs Jeremy Titford and Nigel
Farrage of the openly anti-EU UK Independence party: "The EU is desperate for
enlargement as it wants to build a new empire like the old Soviet Union," Mr
Farrage reportedly said.

Asked why he had become an MEP, Mr Farrage replied that he wanted to learn the
truth and get his opinions across.

The efforts of the sceptics were welcomed by the island's No2EU campaign. "We
need all the help we can get," said Sharon Ellul Bonici, its leader.

No campaigners say they are at a huge disadvantage because they cannot match the
lavish expenditure by the government and the European commission.

But there was also criticism of Tony Blair, who last week wrote to the Times of
Malta expressing his support for a yes vote by pointing out what a good deal the
government had secured at last December's Copenhagen summit.

"Blair should not have interfered in our politics," complained Ms Bonici.

"He should have made contact with the Maltese Labour party - a sister party -
and discussed why we are opposing membership. What is good for Britain may not
be good for Malta. He was used by the conservatives."

Campaigning eurosceptics have become a standard feature of EU referendums in
recent years, from the Danish vote on the euro in 2000 to Ireland's on ratifying
the Nice treaty last October.


LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               9 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             March 3, 2003, Monday

Blair sells EU to Malta as divides over vote deepen

BYLINE: Richard Owen in Valletta

SECTION: Overseas news; 16

LENGTH: 679 words


TONY BLAIR makes an impassioned plea for support for the European Union, while
British Eurosceptics wage a fierce battle against Brussels. This could be
Westminster, but, in fact, the scene is being played out thousands of miles away
in Malta, where the electorate is preparing to vote on Saturday on whether to
join the European Union.

Malta is deeply divided and at the weekend British campaigners wrapped in the EU
blue and gold flag and carrying placards reading "No to the EU" mingled with
costumed carnival revellers in Valletta in an attempt to influence the 16 per
cent of voters who say that they are "undecided".

Outside St John's Cathedral, Terry Kendall, of the UK Independence Party, was
handing out leaflets giving warning that under its new constitution the EU would
be a "centralised federal state" with a single president and army, spelling "the
end of democracy and independence" for member states, especially smaller ones.

"We're getting a lot of support, especially among ordinary working-class
Maltese, as opposed to the elite," he said.

Yet Eddie Fenech Adami, the Maltese Prime Minister, remains confident of a "yes"
vote, despite the intervention of eurosceptics from Britain and a
"scaremongering" campaign by the opposition Malta Labour Party. He predicted
that the Eurosceptics' intervention would prove "counter-productive", yet drew
comfort from the support of Mr Blair. In a letter in The Times of Malta last
week - an unpredecedented move by a foreign leader - Mr Blair congratulated
Malta's "tenacious" negotiators for securing "excellent" entry terms, with
nearly 80 "derogations" or special arrangements on issues from abortion to
neutrality, fishing limits, property ownership and regional status for the tiny
island of Gozo.

Mr Blair insisted that the EU "is not, and will not be, a federal superstate".
"In terms of prosperity and influence" Britain had "always found it better to be
inside than outside", Mr Blair said, adding that "the EU will gain from Malta's
calmly democratic approach in a sometimes turbulent region".

With a population of 400,000, Malta is the smallest of the ten EU applicant
countries. But it is also the first to vote and a "no" could have an impact on
other candidate countries before the accession signing ceremony in Athens next
month.

The Malta Labour Party, playing on fears that Malta will be "recolonised" by the
EU 40 years after gaining its independence from Britain, has urged its
supporters to abstain, vote "no" or spoil their ballot papers by writing "Viva
Malta" on them. Alfred Sant, the Labour leader, said that the Maltese people
were being "brainwashed" by a Government intent on joining the EU "at all
costs". Malta is plastered with "no" posters.

But an ebullient Dr Fenech Adami, who has headed a Nationalist Party Government
since 1998, said that Malta could not "go it alone". He said that most voters
"do not want us to be isolated or left behind. No man is an island, but nowadays
no island is an island, either". He hinted that if Malta voted "yes" "by a
largish margin" - in Maltese terms "a majority of more than 53 per cent" - he
would call an early election.

Dr Fenech Adami said that even the powerful Hunters and Trappers Federation,
which fears that EU regulations will end the popular Maltese sport of shooting
small birds, had refrained from instructing its members which way to vote, as
had the equally powerful Roman Catholic hierarchy, whose fears over abortion had
been eased.

Dr Sant, a Harvard-educated lawyer who describes himself as "pro-European but
not pro-EU", says that Malta has trade links outside the EU, for example with
Libya, a relic of the maverick rule of Dom Mintoff, his controversial
predecessor as Labour leader. He insists that Malta would be better off with a
Swiss or Norwegian style "partnership agreement" with the EU.

But Dr Fenech Adami said that this would "merely be more of the same, since we
already have an association agreement with the EU. It is no longer enough, the
world has moved on."


LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               10 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            March 01, 2003, Saturday

Country diary

BYLINE: By ROBIN PAGE

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 611 words

Oil the handcuffs, polish the police van and sweep out the cell; I have just
agreed to speak in Gloucestershire again. Worse still, I have agreed to speak in
Frampton-on-Severn again, oh dear, oh dear. Every year the Berkeley Hunt
Skittles League has a presentation evening, and this year I am wanted to say a
few words.

I hope most readers have heard that the Gloucestershire constabulary have
dropped their proceedings against me for allegedly inciting racial hatred. There
were no charges to answer and no law was broken - Britain's tradition of free
speech was maintained. I would like to thank readers for all their many messages
of support through what was a most bizarre time.

It is extraordinary the wide variety of organisations I speak to in the course
of a year - from Gloucestershire skittlers to the Oxford Union. Over the next
few weeks I am speaking to gamekeepers in Scotland, hunters in Wales, farmers in
Furness, wildfowlers in Norfolk, anti-EU stalwarts near Birmingham and
supporters of a hospice in Scarborough. They ring up, we agree a time and date
and a deal is done. Professional behaviour is often adopted by people who are
amateurs, doing what they do out of love, conviction or a mixture of both.

Contrarily, I have had some very strange dealings recently with a large,
professional organisation that, in my view, acted in a most unprofessional way.
Yes, you have guessed: the BBC. After a gap of seven years Question Time asked
me to appear for the UK Independence Party. A deal was done - or it would have
been done had I been talking to the Berkeley Skittles League.

My first appearance on Question Time in 1996 was interesting. After the
programme David Dimbleby congratulated me and told me I would have to be the
programme's regular "countryman". At the following election I stood for Jimmy
Goldsmith's Referendum Party. The next time I spoke to Question Time they said:
"We won't have you on the programme again, we wanted you as a countryman, not as
an anti-European." Even then the BBC did not realise that the absurd CAP has
turned nearly every countryman into an anti-European.

The wonderful David Bellamy stood in the next constituency, against John Major,
and like me he saved his deposit quite easily. But just as I disappeared from
Question Time, poor old Bellamy vanished completely from our BBC screens, even
though he is still by far the best communicator in Britain on conservation,
countryside and wildlife matters.

So, after rearranging my life, including putting off a trip to Kenya, to appear
on Question Time from Canaerfon, and after being announced the week before as
one of the panelists, suddenly I was removed. I have been inundated by phone
calls and emails ever since saying, "Where were you?"

The BBC has been giving out two answers: one, that I "withdrew", which is not
true. Two, that my presence would have upset the balance of the panel.

When I queried this with the producer, Nick Fisami, I thought he said: "If you
criticise me you won't be on the programme again anyway." I'm sure he didn't say
this, as I have had a lot of trouble with my telephone over the past year.
Engineers have dug holes and climbed poles, but my telephone is the only one in
the road that has played tricks. When yet another engineer appeared I asked out
of exasperation: "My phone isn't being tapped, is it?" I expected him to laugh
it off. But he said: "I am afraid I can't answer that question sir, I'm bound by
the Official Secrets Act."

I think it is time that the Berkeley Hunt Skittles League ran a course on
business ethics for BBC producers and BT engineers.
[PS]Weekend: [ES]

Country:

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                               11 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 1, 2003

Icon of British independence plans move to the continent

BYLINE: Martin Wainwright

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 301 words


One of the most sturdy icons of British independence is planning to sell his
north country farm and haulage firm - to move to the heartland of the euro and
the common agricultural policy.

Andrew Spence, whose green Farmers for Action peaked cap became a symbol of the
"petrol rebellion" in 2000, has been looking at farms and businesses in France.

The Co Durham farmer, who stood in Tony Blair's Sedgefield constituency at the
last election for the UK Independence party, said both his businesses faced a
bleak future in Britain. Farming was "all but dead" after the body blows of BSE
and foot and mouth, and petrol costs had made haulage unviable.

Mr Spence, who is 35 and runs a mixed sheep, beef and arable farm near Consett,
said increases in pump prices had been the final straw.

"We are paying money now just to get out of bed," he said. "We have looked at a
farm in France where things are cheaper. The cost of fuel here has crippled us."

Mr Spence became a national figure during the lorry drivers' convoy campaign in
the autumn of 2000, when slow-moving trucks jammed motorways and blocked fuel
terminals.

He was arrested at one ter minal blockade, but appealed to many with his blunt
approach to the crisis.

Stung by media comments about the meagre support for a "lorry drivers' Jarrow
march", from the north-east to London, he warned that he had a 23-tonne manure
tanker waiting in the capital to douse critics.

The protesters borrowed French tactics in the petrol dispute, but Mr Spence is
unlikely to export his former militancy to the continent.

Although he has kept links with colleagues in the People's Fuel Lobby, which
organised the petrol protests, he said apathy was now widespread. His attempt to
topple the Mr Blair attracted only 974 votes.


LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               12 of 12 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 1, 2003, Saturday

CAMPAIGN TO UNSEAT PORTILLO DIVIDES THE SEAT THAT TIME FORGOT

BYLINE: PAUL WAUGH DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR A leaflet calling for Michael
Portillo's removal

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 506 words


CHELSEA CONSERVATIVE Club is not an ostentatious place. It may be located in the
King's Road, but to the casual observer its nondescript frontage would be easy
to miss amid the chi-chi shops and restaurants.

Nevertheless, it seems somehow fitting that the club's neighbouring World's End
boutique has a huge clock in its window with its hands slowly moving
anticlockwise. For in the world of Kensington and Chelsea Tories, time literally
travels backwards.

Michael Portillo, the constituency's MP, certainly has good reason to feel as if
he were an extra in Groundhog Day. Seven years after Nicholas Scott, one of his
predecessors, was deselected, the former defence secretary faces a similar
threat. Mr Portillo's broadside against Iain Duncan Smith last week has prompted
his critics to begin a campaign calling for his removal. Parts of Britain's
wealthiest constituency were flooded with leaflets declaring "Portillo Must Go"
on Thursday.

Henry Curteis, a former member of the UK Independence Party, who is leading the
campaign, said: "People have been very interested in what I have to say. I want
to make sure people can do something if they are unhappy."

Kensington and Chelsea can justifiably claim to be the poshest parliamentary
seat in the land. It is stuffed with manicured private gardens, elegant Georgian
squares and 4x4s. But the seat also boasts working-class Tories and the Chelsea
Conservative Club is their spiritual heart. In the club's bar yesterday was the
former Chelsea footballer Alan Hudson, and he was not keen on Mr Portillo. "I'll
never forget the one time he did bother to come here," he said. "He sat over
there with other dressed up people and didn't even say hello to the regulars. He
wouldn't get my vote."

Other party members certainly share this sense of disdain for their MP. One
long-standing member of the association said Mr Portillo failed to attend
Parliament regularly and upset many people by not turning up to their lunch at
last year's Tory party conference in Bournemouth.

One local councillor said that Mr Portillo was "not a figure who inspires
enormous personal affection".

But most members contacted yesterday had only praise for their man. "Michael is,
of all the MPs I have worked with, easily the most assiduous in terms of writing
to you with constituents' concerns raised in his surgeries. He is active,
organised, hardworking and interested," said one.

And although several members have been busy ringing to complain about Mr
Portillo's recent rocking of the Tory boat, few can see how deselection is a
serious prospect. Any member could seek to put a motion from the floor at this
month's AGM. But, as one councillor said: "Even if you could get a proposer and
a seconder, most people will think it in rather bad taste to challenge the MP."

Mr Portillo himself was unimpressed with the attempt to unseat him. In a brief
statement, he said: "The leaflets are coming from a member of UKIP and I refuse
to give oxygen to anything he says."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd
