
                               1 of 15 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           April 30, 2003, Wednesday

COWARDLY POLITICIANS, A DECEITFUL PRESS AND THE RISE OF THE FAR RIGHT IN BRITAIN

BYLINE: JOHANN HARI

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1188 words


Each set of local elections over the past decade has seen a drip- drip of
support towards the British National Party. Despite the BNP's attempt to rebrand
themselves as glossy, 21st-century far right wingers, these are seriously
unpleasant people. To give just a few examples: Paul Thompson, a BNP candidate
in Gateshead, has taken part in Combat 18 attacks and was described by the High
Court judge Sir Charles Gray as "a right- wing pro-Nazi polemicist"; and Mark
Collett, a BNP candidate in Leeds, has said that his hero is Adolf Hitler and
that he'd rather live in Nazi Germany than in contemporary Britain.

Some of these people might actually win an election tomorrow - yet the main
political parties have sought to avoid a confrontation with the far right, for
two reasons. The first is admirable: nobody wants to give the BNP the oxygen of
publicity. Let them rant, howl and curse in a dark corner; the Burnley and
Oldham fever will pass, party tacticians argue. Even in the handful of seats the
BNP do fight, they never get anything approaching a majority, so why dignify
them with a response? The second reason, however, is more telling: nobody has
stood up firmly to the BNP because both major parties - one way or another - are
conceding to BNP- style sentiments about asylum-seekers.

Asylum-seekers, whatever their ethnicity, are the new blacks and Irish: everyone
feels free to spit in their direction. This climate has been fed by a rabid
tabloid press - with the honourable exception of the Daily Mirror - who have
realised that racism sells newspapers. When a boat sank in the English Channel
last December, the Sun columnist Richard Littlejohn lamented the fact that it
didn't contain asylum-seekers. He didn't even bother to add the word "bogus":
his hatred extends effortlessly to those who are fleeing torture and rape. The
Mail, Star and Express are filled with outright lies and abuse; the classic
slurs about immigrants which used to be applied to Jews - that they are greedy,
selfish thieves carrying disease - are there. Simon Heffer of the Daily Mail has
asked why more people are not proud of "white culture"; it is a mentality which
informs his whole paper. Of course, these newspapers pay lip-service to opposing
the far right, but all the while they passionately articulate an agenda close to
that of the BNP.

One sign of how close the overlap is between far-right discourse and our
tabloids can be seen in the figure of an odious man called Gary Bushell. He is a
former TV critic for The Sun, where he gave vent to his prejudices readily, and
he now writes for the Daily Star, which has a rapidly growing circulation. When
he announced that he was thinking of running as London mayoral candidate for the
UK Independence Party, the BNP was delighted. They are considering standing down
their candidate to give him a "free run" on the "white nationalist" right. They
lauded his "involvement with nationalist patriotic ie far right parties in the
past", and his support for repatriating immigrants. A spokesman said that "the
declining number of White folk in the capital will ... see Mr Bushell's
patriotic platform as a means of salvation from the multicultural mess our
once-great capital city has descended to".

Every day, newspapers like Bushell's, motivated by sentiments similar to his
own, pour out lies about asylum-seekers. They are told there are three million
illegal immigrants in the UK - a ridiculous, concocted figure; that
asylum-seekers live in luxury ("wall-to-wall welfare", in Littlejohn's words),
when they get pounds 37 a week and flats on estates that nobody else wants to
live on; that they get "free holidays", which turn out to be a day trip for
their kids to Blackpool; and so on. The notion that we in Britain are a "soft
touch" is bizarre, as is the idea that asylum-seekers are "flocking" to Britain.
Per head of population, we are 10th in the European league table of 17 countries
for taking in refugees, and our benefit levels are among the lowest.

Of course, not every person who is concerned about asylum is a fascist. But
everyone who rants about refugees without mentioning these facts - and carefully
pointing out that even "bogus" asylum-seekers are decent people fleeing poverty
and seeking a better life - feeds the misrepresentations which are so rife now.

The clear job for any British government, especially a Labour one, is to calmly
rebut these lies. The Home Office under David Blunkett has instead conceded to
bigotry and insisted that they are trying to "tackle" asylum- seekers. It is not
hard to see why. There is no doubt he and Tony Blair find the BNP repellent, and
are horrified by the poisonous language used. They rationalise their behaviour
by saying that they are trying to prevent something worse happening, like a
substantial neo-fascist resurgence.

Yet the historical record does not back up their analysis. After six years of
being horribly tough - so tough that this year, several asylum- seekers have
ended up homeless and begging simply because they did not claim asylum at port -
the Government is damned on two fronts. Not only have they pursued an immoral
asylum policy, but also they get no electoral credit for "toughness".

The French experience shows that appeasing the far right over asylum only helps
the far right in the long term. Professor Harvey Simmons, an expert on
neo-fascist parties, documented the conditions that gave rise to the Front
National. From the mid-1980s - when Jacques Chirac first had a spell as Prime
Minister - the political class conceded that the FN, fresh from very limited
success in local elections, had voiced "legitimate concerns", and began to act
on them. Far from abating, FN support grew. And so the story continued:
governments got tougher and tougher, and the FN eventually became so popular
that it squeezed the left out of the second round of the presidential elections
altogether. Far from preventing a rise in fascism, adopting the tone and
priorities of fascists only helps them to seem credible.

Why is the current government - so good on many issues - wantonly refusing to
learn this basic lesson? Even if New Labour became yet more harsh, the tabloids
will simply lie, as they do today, and say it isn't so. Asylum-seekers are
treated more badly by the state now than at any time since the Second World War,
yet still the Axis of Asylum-Bashing - The Sun, the Mail and the Express - claim
that they are living it up at the Savoy. Perhaps it is not just that New Labour
has the wrong analysis; perhaps they are cowards, afraid to challenge and lead
public opinion. I hope that this is wrong, but I fear it is not.

The only moral option for Blair is to now be as tough on quasi-fascism at home
as he was in Kosovo, Afghanistan and Iraq. Here is a moral crusade and a half:
challenge the lies and turn around the obscene mistreatment of asylum-seekers in
Britain. If Blair doesn't, shunting victims of torture on to British streets
will continue to be a terrible scar - both on his conscience and on our country.

j.hari@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                               2 of 15 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           April 30, 2003, Wednesday

STILL GAME;
 FORMER FOOTBALL STARS AIM FOR ELECTION GLORY

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE BY RICHARD GRAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 395 words

HIGHLIGHT: LEGEND:McNeill with European Cup; GREYPOWER:CaldowUNIONMAN:Fulston;
EURO SCEPTIC: McMurdo; CITIZEN FAME: McNeill


SCOTLAND'S politicians are going football crazy with four greying former soccer
figures aiming to score in the Scottish Parliament elections.

Ex-Celtic captain Billy McNeill hopes his silky skills will let him dribble past
opponents for a seat in the Holyrood terraces.

The Lisbon Lion legend has teamed up with his Old Firm rival, former Rangers
star Eric Caldow.

The pair are standing as list candidates for the Scottish Senior Citizens Unity
Party to take grey power to the MSPs.

McNeill, 63, said he had come out of retirement to fight for the people of his
generation who are fed up with being disregarded by Labour and the Lib Dems.

He said: "I've always had a bee in my bonnet about how senior citizens are
treated in this country. They are entitled to a pension and care that lets them
live with dignity.

"That's not happening. They now make up 24 per cent of the population and
deserve a stronger voice."

McNeill and Caldow have been joined by two other candidates famed for their role
in Scottish football.

Former football agent Bill McMurdo is standing for the right-wing UK
Independence Party and ex-Falkirk chairman George Fulston for the
anti-independence Scottish Unionist Party.

Yesterday Fulston, 57, who left Falkirk in 1998 amid the club's financial
difficulties, wants to preserve the Union between Scotland and England.

He said: "I am a patriotic Scot but I have never seen any point in breaking up
the union. It would do more harm than good.

"It has worked well for the last three to four hundred years and will work for
another four hundred. I left football five years ago and worked hard to stand as
a politician.

"While I may have made mistakes at Falkirk FC I know the people in my area well
enough to do a good job for them in Holyrood."

Bill McMurdo is most famous for being George Best's right-hand man and for
taking Celtic player Mo Johnston to rivals Rangers.

A high profile candidate for the UKIP he stood in the 2001 General Elections in
Edinburgh Pentlands.

But the infamous Rangers fan only managed to scoop 150 votes with policies like
building more jail cells for burglars.

If they are elected, his party has promised to abolish the Scottish Parliament
and withdraw from the EU.

McMurdo's biggest dislikes are french farmers and Brussels bureaucrats.

r.gray@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                               3 of 15 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 29, 2003

EXCLUSIVE: FACES SHOWING HOW BNP IS USING 'GENTLE TOUCH' TO CON THE VOTERS; ALL
WOMEN . . . ALL NAZIS

BYLINE: By Richard Moriarty and Cyril Dixon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4 5

LENGTH: 1071 words


THEY are women of all ages, mothers and grandmothers, including a student, an
accountant and a residential care worker. But they all share a disturbing common
factor.

The Daily Express today exposes these women as the female face of the
hate-filled British National Party.

More than 20 women have been recruited to contest seats for the sinister
neo-Nazi party. Leaders believe the feminine touch will add respectability to
the extremists best known for racism and thuggery.

They want to replace the trademark beerswilling soccer lout with the image of
ordinary people of both sexes worried about rising crime and asylum. Many of the
"New BNP" candidates are either ignorant of the party's core values or try to
disguise them by campaigning on local, non-ideological issues.

But last night Tory local government spokesman Eric Pickles shattered the
illusion. "The BNP is the worst element of British politics, " he said. "No
matter what the gender of the candidate, the BNP stands for racism and if you
run under the BNP banner then you are a racist."

Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith spoke of his deep "anger" that the BNP are
fielding candidates in the local elections. He said: "I am sorry and I am angry.
Sorry, because the BNP are a truly loathsome development.

Mainstream politics of every stripe must unite to condemn these parasites on our
democracy.

"But I am also angry.

Angry, because the BNP have only been able to crawl from underneath their little
rock because of rising crime and the shambles in the asylum system."

He added: "The BNP exploit decent people's genuine concerns at Labour's chaotic
asylum system and try to make it an issue of race. It is not. People of every
race and every community agree with the report that described Labour's record as
the worst in Europe."

Labour peer Lord Janner of Braunstone said: "The BNP are Hitler's descendants
and women can be just as racist and Right-wing as men."

Typical of New BNP is Dianne Carr, fighting for a seat in Bristol's Stockwood
ward.

Mrs Carr, 61, a divorced ex-member of the UK Independence Party, lives in a
semi-detached house on a council estate in Henbury, Bristol.

A residential care worker, she told the Daily Express she is worried that the
European Union plans to flood Britain with asylum seekers so that it becomes an
Islamic state.

She also believes that, despite being responsible for the Holocaust, Hitler was
not a Nazi because he employed Jews as well as Germans. "The EU is turning
England into individual regions and bringing in asylum seekers and alien people
and putting them in certain areas right across the middle of Britain and trying
to turn it into an Islamic state, " she said.

Mrs Carr seemed to know very little about the BNP manifesto and, bizarrely,
claimed to have the support of blacks. "I've got nothing against black people, "
she said. "I've got a lot of friends who are black and they are very glad I'm
standing."

Mother-of-one Jean Allison is fighting the election in Stockton-on-Tees
Council's run-down Hardwick ward, where she says "Labour isn't listening".

Mrs Allison, 52, who shares a modest semi in Norton, Stockton, with husband Alan
and her 25-yearold disabled daughter, Daniella, offers to breathe new life into
the area.

"We need to look after our own before looking after others like asylum seekers,
" she said. "Hardwick used to be such a lovely area but now people are scared to
walk the street. We are portrayed as racist thugs but that is just propaganda
from Labour. It is all wrong."

Single mother Debby-Ann Payne, fighting Woolston ward in Southampton, said she
turned to the BNP when she "realised" they offered the best for her two young
children.

She said: "I'm not racist - I've got a niece and nephew who are half-cast and
I've got nothing against them. British people must find their roots and learn to
speak out again for what we believe in. Asylum seekers get houses and money for
vehicles, while I have to survive on GBP 102 a week."

Neat suits and an Iron Cross UNIVERSITY student Sadie Graham says she is
standing for the Nazi BNP to help clean up the party's image.

However, she is contesting Thursday's local elections by spreading fear and
hatred about crime and immigration.

Miss Graham, 24, looks the picture of academic respectability as she drives to
the University of Nottingham in her old car but, in the evenings, she leaflets
the former pit village of Brinsley, Nottingham, fighting for "the native
homelands of the British people".

Miss Graham, who wants to become a lawyer when she finishes her degree in social
and cultural studies, is a far cry from the stereotypical shaven-headed BNP
football thug.

Well-spoken and articulate, she lives with her long-term boyfriend Andy -
another BNP member - in their neat, terrace house.

She was brought up in Brighton, East Sussex, and attended Varndean School, which
boasts actress Amanda Redman among its alumni.

After sitting A-levels, she worked as a paralegal with a Brighton law firm for
three years before spending 12 months in Australia.

However, the BNP sticker in her window shows her true colours, as does the
German Iron Cross sticker on the front of her CD rack.

Miss Graham told the Daily Express she became interested in the BNP four years
ago through friends and the Internet, becoming actively involved when she moved
to Nottingham.

Speaking in her accentless voice and wearing a smart grey trouser suit, she
appears confident of success.

She said: "By 2060, white people are going to be a minority in Britain. I don't
want to bring my children into a world where they are going to be in the
minority.

"The 'racist' image comes from the old days of the National Front but we're not
like that. What you'll see at a BNP meeting is ordinary men and women who are
concerned about what's happening to Britain.

"No-one has ever asked the British people if they want mass immigration."

Miss Graham claimed up to 65 per cent of the people she had canvassed were ready
to vote for her.

She said: "This was a strong Labour area but people feel Labour is selling out
communities."

She insisted it wasn't the BNP's stance to force repatriation but added: "If
people voluntarily wish to go back to their native land, the BNP wants to help
them. Personally, I think that's fine. This country is overpopulated."

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               4 of 15 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 28, 2003

SCOTCHA! ELECTION DIARY

BYLINE: Sergei Platt

SECTION: NO 436

LENGTH: 593 words


    DID I mention what a friendly place Govan can be at election time? Why, it
should be twinned with the Friendly Isles and Friendship, Arkansas!

    I got caught up in a huge election rally in Govan yesterday. There must have
been 50,000 of them, all waving and cheering and friendly as you like. There
were even religious overtones, so I expect they'd just come from church. But
more about that later, because Saturday was a red-letter day, too.

    I've been so touched by everyone wanting to be my friend that I've been
blue-tacking each candidate's leaflet to the front window of my modest house, to
show they're welcome to pop in for a chat and a Magnum, so I can show them my
children's drawings stuck on the fridge door. They wouldn't want to leave!

    Anyway, I've got the SNP's Nicola Sturgeon, the Greens, the UK Independence
Party (you'll remember two of the five candidates are called Bill McMurdo),
somebody else, the SSP and Tory Faisal Butt. But on Saturday I got ELEVEN more.
Oh, what a bountiful morning! I just couldn't wait to get them up on the window
so the neighbours could see how popular I am. My good friend Mr Singh took no
time in shouting heartily across the street: "My, Sergei, what a popular fellow
you are, and no mistake!"

    The Lib-Dem ones were very colourful and I got two for Labour's Gordon
Jackson.

    Stick, stick, up they went! I got two from the Scottish People's Alliance,
which were friendly enough but included the plan to "repatriate our territorial
waters".

    Unusual word for a right-wing party to use in regard to fish. Perhaps it was
just on their mind. What's up with "reclaim"? Still, up they went!

    There was a general one for Labour, a second one for the Tommy Sheridan lot
and one for the Scottish Unionist Party. The Communist Party one was drab, but
up it went, as I reckon that guy needed a bit of comradeship in his lonely class
struggle. The price list for takeaway meals from the nearby Balti Palace was
amongst them, so I popped that up as well, as my popularity was on such a roll,
and I wanted the edge on Mr Singh if he tried to follow suit.

    Honestly, my heart was warm as a stove with all the love coming my way, but
yesterday was the icing on the cake. I was walking into work at The Sun straight
from church, and suddenly there were politically active people all around me!
They were cheering and crying out in their fervour for the workings of
democracy.

    Each wore the colours of their favourite party - not just a rosette, but
their whole person! I wished the IRA, UDA and UVF parties had thought through
their names a bit better because you don't want to be sharing your name with
paramilitaries. There seemed to be even more in the FTP camp. I guess this is
short for the Fenian Tolerance Party or something, but it seemed to have a very
popular base. One fan even brandished the name of his preferred candidate, and
what I took to be the number of votes he received in 1999 - James Connolly,
1916.

    There were lots of other banners but my eyes were by now misted over by the
sheer love on display. I expect today I'll get pamphlets from the IRA, UDA, UVF,
FTP and the Independent, James Connolly. That would make 22, with three more
posts to come and still no word from Billy McNeill's SSCUP and the Socialist
Labour Party.

    In my mind's eye, I've got the SSCUP one up next to the Balti Palace and the
FTP one beside the McMurdos. Did I say Govan was a friendly place at election
time?

    We're gonna need a bigger window.

    SERGEI PLATT

    s.platt@the-sun.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               5 of 15 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 26, 2003

Do we want devolution?;
Fewer than one in two voted for it, and a majority now deem it a failure. A low
turnout next week could sound the death knell for the fledgling parliament. But
are the parties doing enough to save it?

BYLINE: Gerald Warner

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1821 words


IT has been a lacklustre campaign, notable chiefly for the electorate's
obstinate refusal to take it seriously but, make no mistake, next Thursday's
Scottish election matters. Even if there is a record rate of abstention and very
few people turn out to vote, that in itself will be an important development.

Next Thursday will be the real test of devolution. The first Scottish election,
back in 1999, had a huge novelty value. It was surrounded by hype and
razzmatazz.

Now comes the workaday response of the Scottish electorate to the devolution
settlement.

How do they rate it? How has it affected their lives? Are they engaged with the
Holyrood parliament, or do they regard it as irrelevant - even alien? Answers,
please, on a ballot paper, on May 1.

Behind the party strife, the claims and counter- claims, the promises easily
pledged but seldom redeemed, there lurk larger issues. How do we Scots regard
ourselves in 2003? How do we want to be governed? Is devolution a final
destination or a staging post to separatism?

Although it may be a clichH, the question has to be asked, because it has not
yet been convincingly answered: what is the present state of the Scottish
identity?

Historically, the Scottish parliament had little to do with the Scottish
identity. At defining moments in our history, power was awarded to some ad hoc
body: at the Reformation it was the Protestant Lords of the Congregation, in the
17th century the Solemn League and Covenant.

AND it is significant that the forces fighting King Charles I were known in
England as the Parliamentarians; in Scotland, they were Covenanters.

England regarded the parliament at Westminster as ' the cock- pit of the
nation'. No one would have thought of

dramatising the pre-1707 Scottish parliament in that way.

Ironically, the first time the old Scottish parliament really came centre-stage
was when it abolished itself, its members having been heavily bribed by English
ministers.

It is fair to say that, after the 1707 Treaty of Union, Scots took more interest
in the doings at Westminster, where they had only minority representation, than
they had ever accorded to affairs in Parliament House in Edinburgh.

Nor was parliament regarded as the ultimate expression of sovereignty. As
recently as 1953, the Lord President Cooper declared in a judgment: 'The
principle of the unlimited sovereignty of Parliament is a distinctively English
principle which has no counterpart in Scottish constitutional law.'

That, then, is the rather limited parliamentary heritage of Scotland. It was
only during the devolution hype, from 1968 onwards, that an attempt was made to
persuade Scots that their national identity was vitally dependent on securing a
separate parliament.

The scepticism with which this thesis was received became evident at the first
Devolution Referendum on March 1, 1979, when on a turnout of 63 per cent, only
33 per cent of the total electorate voted Yes.

Thereafter, devolution routinely ranked between eighth and 14th among the
priorities of respondents to opinion polls.

At the second referendum in 1997, the turnout was actually down from 1979 at
61.4 per cent, although this time devolution was carried, but with the support
of just 1,775,045 voters out of an electorate of four million. That is a point
worth bearing in mind: the devolved Scottish parliament has never commanded the
support of a majority of the electorate.

There is a general presumption that, if turnout falls below 50 per cent, the
parliament will have lost its mandate and consequently its legitimacy.

But it did not gain as much as 50 per cent support in 1997.

Devolutionists are keeping their fingers crossed and hoping turnout will scrape
past the 50 per cent threshold, since they will count everyone who bothers to
vote as endorsing the parliament's existence. ( The UK Independence Party is the
only one represented on the ballot paper that has a policy of abolishing the
parliament, and it is fielding only 41 list candidates.) That means all those
who voted No in 1997 - all 614,000 of them - have been disenfranchised. To their
number may be added an unknown proportion of the 38.6 per cent of the electorate
that abstained in 1997, as well as all those who have since become disillusioned
with Holyrood's performance.

THAT is hardly an impressive exercise in democracy, nor an incentive to vote, so
far as many disillusioned Scots are concerned.

The party which bears the responsibility for this state of affairs is the
Scottish Conservative Party, formerly the torchbearer of opposition to
devolution, latterly a deathbed convert to the cause of a Scottish parliament.

The alacrity with which the Tories have gone native, picking up salaries and
allowances amounting to more than GBP 100,000 a year per MSP, has alienated many
former supporters and is likely to be reflected in the result.

Yet they have produced an appealing manifesto. They are offering genuine NHS
reform, including foundation hospitals and a rerun of the fundholding practices
that many GPs had come to value, just before they were abolished by Labour.

On education, the electorate's other chief preoccupation among public services,
they are committed to parent power, offering them the right to create schools
tailored to their children's needs.

This approach contrasts strongly with Labour's heavyhanded, doctrinaire crushing
of St Mary's School at Dunblane.

The Tories are also not afraid to offer a policy of more realistic sentences for
criminals - going in the opposite direction from Justice Minister Jim Wallace's
increasingly discredited bleedingheart liberalism.

Their policy of restoring the unified business rate with England would also
bring welcome relief to struggling small businesses. And yet...

The Tories suffered the embarrassment of the defection of two former MSPs in the
opening days of the campaign. Combined with an enduringly dismal opinion poll
rating, they do not look set to recover lost ground.

They also exhibit a degree of timidity - most notably in refusing to use the
Tartan Tax powers to cut income tax by 3p, as their rivals in the Scottish
People's Alliance have pledged to do. On the other hand, David McLetchie's
performance on a television debate with an extremely difficult audience was
remarkably surefooted, even masterful. So the Tories remain an unpredictable
force.

SO do the Scottish Nationalists. Having been neck-andneck with Labour at the
start, they give the impression of having snatched defeat from the jaws of
victory.

But was there ever a serious prospect they could win, given an electoral system
designed to keep them out of power?

They have not helped themselves. First, they played up the issue of
independence, placing it at the heart of their campaign. That was a mistake -
there is no evidence they have persuaded voters of the case for separatism.

The cleverer approach, adopted more recently, has been to highlight their
promise of a separate referendum on independence, in the event of their gaining
power, but to talk down the 'I' word.

Disillusioned Labour voters, in particular, might be encouraged to switch to the
SNP, then vote to retain the Union at any subsequent referendum.

So far as the future of Scotland is concerned, that is a very highrisk
proposition. But as an electoral strategy for the SNP, it is the only one that
makes sense.

Purists from the party's dyedinthe-wool separatist wing may dissent, but they
have nowhere else to go, except with Tommy Sheridan's toytown Trots.

The promise of a separate referendum on independence could conceivably lead to
the SNP being left to run the devolution settlement for four years, which in the
eyes of voters might not be a bad way of testing their competence, while
punishing Labour.

But there is no evidence that John Swinney - often mocked for lacking the
'charisma thing' - is winning over the voters. Defeat for the SNP on Thursday
could mean curtains for his leadership.

Of the minor opposition parties, Tommy Sheridan's Scottish Socialists are a
political Jurassic Park. They are a sanctuary for every dinosaur trade union
militant, student fantasist and back- street class warrior in Scotland.

Since these are more numerous than in other parts of the UK, the socialists will
probably increase their representation, although not by the eight seats some
implausibly predict.

The cleverest tactic being employed in this election is the Green Party's
appeal: 'Second vote Green.' Realising they have no chance of winning any
constituency seats, they invite voters to honour their customary allegiances,
tempered only by a second vote cast in their favour. It is a modest approach
that could pay a significant dividend.

The most interesting party is the new kid on the block - the Scottish People's
Alliance - with a raft of populist policies.

Some of these are downright daft. Others, such as the proposal to have just 56
MSPs, based in Edinburgh but sitting two days a week at Westminster, show the
kind of imaginative approach to constitutional reform that may bear fruit in the
long-term.

The Alliance also has the courage to propose the tax cuts the Tories are afraid
to support.

The Liberal Democrats, having attached themselves like limpets to Labour's
bottom, do not merit separate consideration. Their posturing as an opposition
party is a sham. Their opinions are those of the particular elector whose
doorstep they are obstructing.

They continue to benefit from the voters' false perception of them as a Centrist
party, when they are actually an untidy Leftist coalition, permanently at the
disposal of Labour.

All of which brings us to Labour, the party of permanent government in Scotland
- unless there's a spectacular upset next Thursday, provoked by a very low
turnout.

LABOUR'S record speaks for itself: GBP 400million squandered on the parliament
building; Henry McLeish awarded a GBP 34,000 annual pension and a standing
ovation on his last day at Holyrood; Jack McConnell's interesting constituency
finances; unbending rejection of all the reforms in health and education adopted
by New Labour south of the Border and an incestuous party machine rooted in the
badlands of municipal Lanarkshire.

A TV poll on day one of the election campaign registered 94 per cent of
respondents believing devolution has been a failure.

Which of the parties listed on next Thursday's ballot paper has a convincing
agenda to reverse that perception? That is the judgment Scotland must make.

What if the answer is none? Even a negative verdict would at least open up a
fresh debate. If the nation is not at ease with itself and its system of
government, then new paths must be explored.

That is why whatever happens next week will be significant for all our futures.


LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               6 of 15 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 24, 2003

Mind-numbing march of the fourth-raters

BYLINE: John Macleod

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1165 words


IN my student days, when I was active in the splendidly titled Federation of
Student Nationalists eight of us met in a dusty room William Wolfe once came to
address us.

Wolfe, a genuinely nice man who had led the SNP in the 1970s, still holds one
record as an indefatigable parliamentary candidate he fought Tam Dalyell in West
Lothian in no fewer than seven elections and lost every one of them.

It is too long ago to remember of what Wolfe spoke. He cut a rather sad figure.
He had lately been driven from the SNP presidency after speaking his mind about
the Pope, and in that longago spring of Thatcher's second term the party itself
was a marginalised irrelevance.

All I remember is that I brought along a battered copy of his 1973 memoirs,
Scotland Lives. Wolfe was pathetically pleased and autographed it solemnly: '
Billy Wolfe St George's Day 1985.' These were locust years for patriots.

A week or two later, we happy few remembered solemnly to vote for a Nationalist
student who oddly never bothered to turn up at our meetings. He was already a
rising bag-carrier for the SNP leadership and running for Union Secretary.

I still remember seeing him at the count, a bloke in black jeans who blinked
bashfully and lost by a mile. Even then he had all the charisma of a gerbil.

An adult lifetime later, John Swinney hopes for greater things. And every day
buried in the depths of the papers one sees him, and the rest, strutting their
stuff in a contest that has utterly failed to catch fire.

Scotland is sleepwalking to the polls in an election that, if opinion polls read
true, will see scarcely a seat change hands and condemn us to another four years
of tired fourth-raters presiding over small-town spites.

Apathy? We've seen more vigour in a frozen sloth. I saw more placards on
lampposts, more canvassers chapping doors, in the regional elections of 1986.

THE liveliest debate in the week past over fiscal autonomy was fought between
Gordon Brown and Alex Salmond, who are not even candidates. Some of the parties
do not even seem to know the constituency boundaries. The Liberal Democrats have
opened a shop on Edinburgh's Morningside Road for their campaign in Edinburgh
Pentlands the shop is in Edinburgh South.

My parents received a leaflet from Shirley Gibb, Scottish Socialist candidate in
Edinburgh South our street is in Edinburgh Pentlands.

There is so much of this sort of fudge going on that the Scottish parliament
elections threaten to take a surreal turn. One advert for Labour's Alasdair
Morrison in the Western Isles claimed as an achievement the very expensive new
ferry from Uig to North Uist and Harris. The vessel's construction was announced
in June 1998, almost a year before Morrison's election.

Then oh, help there is the voting system. For reasons no one can quite explain,
on a poll where Labour and the SNP evenly split the vote, Labour would romp home
with 20 more seats. In 1999, 112,488 Glaswegians voted Labour on the second
ballot although as Labour predictably won every f i r s t - p a s t - t h e - p
o s t constituency not a single list Labour MSP could be elected.

Nothing, it seems, can deliver the regional vote from being a snakepit for
secessionists. In the Highlands and Islands the Protect Rural Scotland Party
enjoys a knockdown-drag-out fight with the Countryside Party. Elsewhere, the
Scottish Socialists lock horns with Socialist Labour.

In Lothian, it is hard to know what to make of 'Vote Helen Campbell for
alternative/ complementary medicine', or what on earth John Hein of the Liberal
Party in Scotland means by 'non-military security', far less 'a fundamental
right to strong encryption uncompromised by key escrow and the Wassenaar
Arrangement'.

Much of it is the tired old parish-pump stuff. Margo Mac-Donald, 'The
independent Voice of Independence', tells voters in Lothian that 'I oppose the
wholesale dispersal of government jobs from this area, like shifting Scottish
Natural Heritage to Inverness'. This is in a city that has profited vastly from
devolution, harbouring a quango that spends most of its time annoying
Highlanders.

Ken McKinlay, of the South Morningside Liberal Democrats, wants a safe crossing
at Blackford Pond and more evening runs by the 38 bus. (His party seems intent
on dishonouring a longstanding pledge to exterminate giant hogweed).

In the Western Isles, Alasdair Nicholson and the SNP flirt delicately with
homophobia. ' I would not have voted for the repeal of Section 4a (S28) of the
Education Act,' says Nicholson.

That's news to every Nationalist MSP in the last parliament, whipped to vote for
repeal whether they wanted to or not.

Inevitably the floor beside me is covered with leaflets from half the nation
there are the toe-curling banalities of electioneering. Jack McConnell lately
had a riveting Sabbath in Cumbernauld he visited a branch of Tesco. The other
day he was photographed enjoying a fish supper.

ALASDAIR Morrison was snapped fondling a bored fish as he witnessed '
diversification at a halibut farm in Marivig Lochs'. And yesterday John Swinney
took care to be pictured demonstrating against Trident at Faslane Trident, Nato
and other defence matters are entirely reserved powers.

If you thought the Scottish parliament an entire waste of money, think again. It
is in fact a sinister 'regional body serving the wider ambitions of the European
Union', cries the UK Independence Party.

And then there are the terrible biographies. Who, for instance, would raise to
public office someone quite as sad as Stephen Milburn of the Scottish People's
Alliance? 'He previously stood as a Conservative candidate at local level in
Muirhouse in 1984. Stephen enjoys the Internet, driving, and collecting model
buses and trains.

He is also a member of Mensa.' It is important not to confuse public
indifference with journalistic inertia. What really stands out from 1999 is the
Press's boredom with this election.

That might not be entirely bad four years ago, newspapers all but united in a
grossly unfair and hysterical attack on the Nationalists. But something is far
wrong when, eight days from polling, not a single Scottish newspaper yesterday
could be bothered to carry a Scottish election story on its front page.

Yet there is no shortage of dragons. The Scottish economy founders under a
surfeit of taxpayers' money while builders toil on a parliament building whose
projected cost GBP 340million and rising would have dualled the entire A9 or
constructed 14 secondary schools.

No one, not even the Tories, is prepared to tell the truth about the failure of
our public services which absorb millions of further funds to no evident avail
because no party will take on the white-collar public sector salariat.

When I last heard of Billy Wolfe, he was writing wistful New Age poetry and
assuring an interviewer he was the reincarnation of an extinct star.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               7 of 15 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 24, 2003, Thursday

Protesters cry God for St George in row over EU flag

BYLINE: By Nick Britten

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 371 words

LED by an imposing figure of St George on a horse clad in his colours,
protesters marched through the streets of Telford yesterday after their local
council insisted on flying only the European flag from its buildings.

Telford and Wrekin council has enraged many local people by refusing to fly
permanently the Union flag or the Cross of St George, and has come in for even
greater criticism for refusing to change the flags during the war in Iraq as a
show of support for British troops.

Yesterday, the protesters took advantage of St George's Day to make their point
by marching through the town before laying a wreath remembering British soldiers
who died in the Gulf war.

The Earl of Bradford, who led the protesters behind St George, said: "People
have been incensed by this decision and there have been untold amounts of
letters written to the local paper from people up and down the county but the
council takes no notice.

"The council leader is a staunch Europhile but frankly it is wrong to fly the
European flag instead of the Union one.

"We are still British, just, and so it is the Union flag that should take
precedence on our official buildings.

"Sadly, it seems these days that celebrating our culture and national identity
is being discouraged at every turn."

The council erected the European flags to celebrate the high level of inward
investment and grants the town has received.

A spokesman said the nearby Ironbridge gorge was also a European Heritage site.
"Our links with Europe are very strong and that is why we do it," he said. "It
is not done deliberately to upset people."

Yesterday, however, the council appeared to have bowed, at least temporarily, to
the protesters' demands. The Cross of St George, along with the Union flag and
the European flag, were flying on top of council headquarters.

The spokesman said the Union flag was flown on "all key dates", such as the
Queen's birthday and Remembrance Day.

Brian Seymour, of the UK Independence Party, said: "At least it shows that
democracy works, but the Union flag was not flying here yesterday and I'm sure
it won't be tomorrow.

"What we want is for it to be posted on council buildings permanently."
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                               8 of 15 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 24, 2003

GIVE SCOTLAND A CHANCE AND ABOLISH HOLYROOD

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 136 words


THINK twice or pay the price, we were warned regarding the Holyrood Parliament -
and what a price the career politicians of Holyrood have exacted from us.

Have the Scottish people ever had to endure so much maladministration in such a
short time before? Lobbygate and First Minister McLeish found guilty of
corruption. Ever lengthening queues at the hospitals and surgeries. No wonder
Scotland is the sick man of Europe.

The MSPs have shown their contempt for the people with the Section 28 debacle
and the increases in pay and pensions they have awarded themselves.

However, there is hope - the UK Independence Party is calling for a referendum
to scrap Holyrood to give Scotland a second chance.

I am the UKIP election agent and third list candidate for Lothian Region.

JL Mumford, Bathgate

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               9 of 15 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 24, 2003, Thursday

WELSH ELECTION: RON DAVIES STILL CASTS A SHADOW OVER HIS OLD SEAT

BYLINE: PAUL PEACHEY Labour is fighting to keep Caerphilly but Nadine Davey,
top, and Kevin Carter predict a win for Plaid Cymru Huw Evans Agency

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 323 words


RON DAVIES will no longer hold his election victory parties in the back room of
the Aneurin Labour Club. For the first time since 1983, when he won his
Westminster seat, he will not be part of the Caerphilly political scene.

"As a politician, the man was brilliant," said Kevin Carter, 42, a baker,
nursing his drink at the bar. "Had it not been for the Clapham Common nonsense,
then he would be running the Welsh Assembly, and it would be better than it is
today."

The Assembly seat is, remarkably, under threat from Plaid Cymru. For the
Westminster seat at the 2001 general election, Wayne David held the seat for
Labour with a 14,000 majority. Then, as now, the Plaid Cymru challenger was
Lindsay Whittle, the head of the county borough council, where nationalists
outnumber Labour councillors. And in the first Assembly election in 1999, the
year after his Clapham Common "moment of madness", Mr Davies came within 3,000
votes of defeat.

Although Mr Carter, a long-time Labour voter, will not vote on 1 May ("the Welsh
Assembly is a load of codswallop"), he tipped Plaid to edge it.

Across town, in the Courthouse pub by Caerphilly Castle, there was some
agreement. Barbara Yeo, a retired shopkeeper aged 50, said that Mr Whittle's
credentials at the council would be decisive.

Nadine Davey, 21, a student, will vote as she did at the general election, for
Plaid. She said: "I'm not anti-English but I think Wales should have
independence. And I like Lindsay Whittle." In an election in which personality
may be a factor, the Labour candidate, Jeff Cuthbert, shrugged off the Ron
Davies factor. (Mr Davies announced last month he would be quitting politics.)
He said: "The general opinion was what's done is done and we're moving forward."

CAERPHILLY: Laura Jones (C); Jeffrey Cuthbert (Lab); Rob Roffe (Lib Dem);
Lindsay Whittle (PC); Avril Daffyd-Lewis (Ind); Anne Blackman (Ind); Brenda
Vipass (UKIP).

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                               10 of 15 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 24, 2003

SCOTCHA! ON THURSDAY

BYLINE: Sergei Platt

SECTION: NO 433

LENGTH: 578 words


    I KEEP wondering where George Galloway's voice comes from. It's not Dundee.
It's not Glasgow. The closest match I can get is TV golf voice Alex Hay, from
Edinburgh. Then I cracked it. He's rather like those Noel Coward crooners who
fruited up their vowels, as in "a rooom with a vee-oo, and yee-oo..."

    I'D HEARD George had a Glasgow journalist chum, who got heavy with people.
Surely not? Then I heard this geezer, whose name escaped me, taped telling a BBC
reporter on Newsnight: "I'll fill you in". Whaaat? Who talks like this? Hey,
comrade, your pal's a traitor. Want some? Bring it on.

    LOVED the story about tiny Jamiroquai frontman Jay Kay being too short to
reach the pedals of his new Ferrari Enzo. I bet they have a special mechanic
nicknamed Luigi Longpedals who fixes them up for titchy rich men with Pounds
425,000 to burn like Jay, Prince, Martin Scorsese, Jeffrey Archer, Dustin
Hoffman, Tom Cruise...Hell, you'd think that Ferrari might as well just make 'em
for shorta*ses in the first place.

    A SURVEY reveals that 95 per cent of home-owners dislike "cold-callers"
offering to fix their gutter for the price of a Ferrari Enzo. What I want to
know is, who are the other five per cent who say: "Yippee! There's a dodgy
workie at my door come to take some money off me! I'll just pop the kettle on."

    I DON'T think SNP titch Nicola Sturgeon will come knocking on my door. Pity
- we could have had a nice chat.

    Her leaflet dropped on my mat yesterday but its message of "release Govan's
potential" didn't have the ring of, say "Dig For Victory" or "Onward To The Next
Five-Year Plan!"

    It wasn't a patch on those from my new friends the SSP, the Greens, the UK
Independence Party, somebody else, and Tory Faisal Butt. My - what a friendly
place Govan can be come election time!

    PEAS-IN-A-POD No164: Reader Gerry McSherry - and wouldn't you love a name
like that? - suggests Never Mind The Buzzcocks card Sean Hughes and plum-gubbed
Channel Four News parliamentary boiler Eleanor Goodman.

    TONIGHT'S the night! "The second hand of the stocking-ends of the Goblet of
UEFA!"

    Oporto newspaper O Primeiro De Janeiro adds that "2,500 noisy adepts of the
Glasgow catholics" are expected in town and that the main dangers are "the
Swedish medium and the back extremity, Bucket." Balde, you'll remember, is
Portuguese for bucket - slightly better than Broto, which is sprout. So can
Bucket the Back Extremity bail out the Glasgow catholics and go to the end-rooms
of the Goblet in Seville?

    AMERICA still hasn't got to grips with this sac-cer thing. A review of Bend
It Like Beckham in the Pittsburg Tribune Review reveals David Beckham as the
captain of Manhattan United.

    GMTV had a scoop which no one seemed to pick up on. An ex-Iraqi Cabinet
minister said a crack unit of 20 Tikriti pilots trained in very low flying had
taken Saddam to Yemen, Uday to Belarus and Qusay to Russia, en route to South
America, where they would disappear. There is one question - where are Saddam's
18 lookalikes? And if they're in one place, what would be the FIRST WORD of the
soldier to find them?

    THEY Started It No34: Walter STRANGLE (1420-1451) Immensely strong German
murderer who was executed after a series of throttlings.

    ANANOVA reports: 1. A Chinese OAP who walks backwards round a lake was
rescued after he lost concentration and fell in. 2. A US animal rights group has
urged Hamburg, NY, to change its name to Veggieburg.


LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               11 of 15 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 21, 2003, Monday

Effect on UK of EU enlargement

SECTION: Features; 17

LENGTH: 199 words


From Mr Nigel Farage, MEP for South East England (UKIP)

Sir, It is unusual to see an EU issue on which the Conservative Party is united
(letter, April 16). Both the europhile and eurosceptic wings support the ten new
member states joining the EU in May 2004.

The europhiles claim that an enlarged EU will bring economic benefits to the UK.
I rather doubt this, though it will bring a flood of people from Eastern Europe
seeking benefit. The eurosceptics believe that a wider Europe will not lead to a
political deepening of Europe, totally ignoring the fact that the constitutional
convention continues regardless. Neither wing dares to say that enlargement of
the EU will lead to a dilution of funds returned to the UK, as every new member
is poorer than Britain.

The British Labour, Liberal Democrat, Green and Conservative Parties all voted
for enlargement in the European Parliament last week. Only the three UKIP MEPs
opposed. I wonder who is more in touch with public opinion.

Yours faithfully, NIGEL FARAGE (Group for a Europe of Democracies and
Diversities), The Old Grain Store, Church Lane, Lyminster, West Sussex BN17 7QJ.

ukipse@ukip.org

April 16.


LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               12 of 15 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 19, 2003, Saturday

Football before independence

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 138 words

My colleague Robin Page - who is to represent the UK Independence Party in next
year's European elections - has already upset some party faithful.

"Page has so far failed to turn up to three of our four husting meetings," moans
one UKIP member. "Then, when he did attend, he announced that he wouldn't stay
long because he had to get home to watch England on the telly."

Over to Page. "UKIP gave me eight dates and they were all already booked up," he
tells Spy. "On the night of the football I had friends coming round, but I
missed the whole first half to attend the hustings. Is that not good enough?"

If elected, we can expect more fireworks. Last year, Page told rural affairs
minister Alun Michael he was "a -------- little political ----," before
threatening to "deck" him.
[PS]Features [ES]

Saturday spy:

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                               13 of 15 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 19, 2003

Iraq: after the war: Blair admits he had war jitters

BYLINE: Michael White, Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 559 words


Tony Blair's admission that he told officials to prepare for his resignation if
he failed to win the crucial Commons vote on the looming war with Iraq surprised
many Labour MPs yesterday.

But close colleagues insisted that the prime minister's admission - in an
interview in yesterday's Sun - was implicit in much that he did and said in the
run-up to the March 18 vote. It saw a decisive 396 to 217 defeat for anti-war
MPs, but a record 139 Labour backbenchers in the rebel camp.

"It was always possible that you could be in that situation. But the point is
that some people are going to die as a result of your decision. In the end if
you lose your premiership, well you lose it. But at least you lose it on the
basis of something that you believe in," Mr Blair told the newspaper, one of his
staunchest allies in the war.

As he enjoys the quietest family weekend he has had for months with parliament
on its Easter break, Mr Blair is coming down to earth, facing up to a familiar
domestic agenda after concentrating on the Iraq crisis, and uncertain whether
voters will reward or punish his stance when the local elections take place in
May.

Having left the EU's Athens summit early, and thus been absent from the "doves
of peace" photocall for EU leaders, Mr Blair repeated his criticism of France
for threatening to veto a new UN resolution: "If the UN had been unified we may
have avoided conflict."

But now that the conflict with Saddam Hussein's regime is giving way to the
uncertainties of postwar reconstruction Mr Blair clearly feels able to reveal
his fears, including being "really worried" that allied forces might get "bogged
down" 10 days into the campaign.

"Had we miscalculated the degree of the depth of resistance?" he asked himself.
Later he felt pleasure and relief at the sight of Iraqi crowds destroying
statues of the fallen dictator - "the most clear visible expression of what it
was like to live in a police state".

Asked whether Saddam was dead or alive, Mr Blair said: "If I knew I would tell
you. People think that I have some secret piece of intelligence that tells them
the answer. But I don't."

He was less opaque about the fate that threatens the anti-war Labour MP George
Galloway, who called on Iraqis to resist the invasion. "His comments were
disgraceful and wrong," Mr Blair said of the MP's inflammatory interview on Abu
Dhabi TV.

"I am not going to set him up as a martyr to me," he added, stressing that the
Labour national executive committee's own rules would deal with complaints.

What the NEC will do throws Mr Blair's domestic dilemma into stark relief. Tory
and Liberal Democrat opponents, as well as smaller parties from Greens and
nationalists to the UKIP and the BNP, all hope to benefit in the May council
elections from a mixture of hostility to the war and what the Conservative
chairwoman, Theresa May, yesterday called "Labour's failure to live up to its
promises on public services".

Loyalists insist that party membership is not sinking amid anti-war alienation
and that voters believe public services are improving.

But some senior ministers admit an urgent need to re-connect with the party.

"There's a really serious job to be done, not by going off at a tangent, but by
listening and connecting," said one.

Leader comment, page 19


LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               14 of 15 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 19, 2003

SCOTCHA!SOMETHING FOR THE WEEKEND

BYLINE: Sergei Platt

SECTION: NO 429

LENGTH: 555 words


    THE nice thing about elections is that people who normally couldn't care if
you live or die screaming in agony want to be your best friend. All those
strangers at the door! All their bright rosettes! Their cheery talk is such a
tonic! And of course, you can start the day with some nice, shiny leaflets. If
you live alone, it's as good as a friend dropping in.

    Yesterday dawned sunnily with a lovely pamphlet from the Scottish Green
Party.

    They didn't even want my main vote. They respected me so much that they
asked only for my second vote. How modest and kind they are! One of the
candidates is called Carola Boehm, as in the Cheeky Girls' song, Touch My Boehm.

    Then I got a lovely purple leaflet from the UK Independence Party. They are
for getting Britain out of Europe and will cause fantastic mischief for the SNP,
who will not mention the I-word. I suspect most voters didn't get as far as the
back of the leaflet, but I wanted to know who my new friends were.

    How about this? Of the five candidates for Glasgow, one was Bill McMurdo,
"small businessman" and another was William McMurdo, "former football agent". I
think Bill the former football agent should have insisted on keeping the Bill,
as we know him as Bill, not William, if you follow. They must have tossed for
it.

    I was saddened that I'd no longer be able to tramp the streets singing: "One
Bill McMurdo; there's only one Bill McMurdo" but that's politics for you, full
of reassessments.

    You may remember Bill is the weasely-looking geezer who once sold a notable
Catholic to Rangers. This is a man who breaks down barriers. I notice his new
name could make him William Of Orange, and I suspect he'd like that.

    TOMORROW sees the 300th episode of The Simpsons, so here's a toast to Scots
regular, Groundskeeper Willie, who'd make a top Green candidate, yet has a vague
look of Bill McMurdo. There's a new website dedicated to him,
www.scotchtoberfest.cjb.net/ Here are some you have loved...

    "There's nary an animal alive that can outrun a greased Scotsman."

    "I dinna cry when me own father was hung for stealing a pig. But I'll cry
now."

    "Grease me up, lassie!"

    "Get your haggis, right here! Chopped heart and lungs boiled in a wee
sheep's stomach! Tastes as good as it sounds."

    AFTER my item about Brigadier Sir Gregor MacGregor of MacGregor, I hear of
clan chief Lachlan McLachlan of Strathlachlan. Two more and we've got a poem.

    THE Honda Accord TV ad is just the thing to make a drugs party in Possilpark
go with a sheeeesh. They seem to save the full two-minute version for Manchester
United games, so make a date for Wednesday. But the short version is still a
masterpiece.

    It's the one where all the car parts clink, roll, fizz and whoosh into one
another. It's all genuine, and done in one take with no tricks. The bit where
the windscreen wipers moon-walk must be especially hard to take in rehab.

    GREAT Mysteries Of Our Time, No39: Brooklyn Beckham is going to the Bobby
Charlton Soccer School, but whatever happened to Bobby's daughter, Suzanne? Do
TV weathergirls retire, get fed up, or do they get passed over for a younger
model?

    ANANOVA reports: A Tokyo businessman is selling gold-coated lumps of human
excrement as lucky charms. The words for luck and poo are the same in Japanese.


LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               15 of 15 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 9, 2003

Top heavy wish list? You can count on it

BYLINE: Allan Massie

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 844 words


WELL, yes, there is an election on, though nobody except the politicians
themselves yet seems greatly interested. I would love to know what the viewing
figures are for the party political broadcasts. About the same, I would guess,
as figures for some of these obscure cable channels that are accidentally
discovered by sofa surfers. Still, at least the nominations are now all in and
we can take stock of what's on offer.

This time round there is clearly a better appreciation of the possibilities
opened up by the regional list system, from which 56 of our 129 MSPs will be
drawn. All sorts of groupings have appeared.

On the Right we have, apart from the Scottish Conservative Party, the new
Scottish People's Alliance and the Scottish Unionist Party. There is also the
United Kingdom Independence Party and, on the extreme Right, the British
National Party, which is putting up a list candidate in Glasgow.

On the Left, apart from Tommy Sheridan's Scottish Socialist Party we have the
Socialist Labour Party, the Scottish Socialist Alliance and, again in Glasgow, a
lone Communist.

Then we have a plethora of parties which nobody could confidently assign to
Right or Left: the Pensioners' Party, the Scottish Senior Citizens' Unity Party
which seems to be divided from the Pensioners' Party the Pro-Life Party, the
Liberal Democrat Party in Scotland and the Fishing Party.

There are a couple of Protect Rural Scotland parties, the Scotland and Shetland
(Robbie the Pict) Party, various health and hospital parties, the Christian
Independent Alliance UpHolding Community Values Party which may have more
letters in its acronym than it will get votes Am Parthaidh Dhuthchail and the
bizarrely named Adam Lyal's Witchery Tour Party.

THEN there are some standing simply as Independents whose policies we can only
guess at.

But it's clear that if you can't find some party or grouping that represents
your views, then your opinions must be way out.

Apart from the professional politicians seeking re-election there are very few
well-known candidates.

That's not surprising.

The confident assertion in predevolution days that the Scottish parliament would
attract talented and successful people from all walks of life was revealed as
mere wishful thinking years ago.

To be fair, it was never likely this would happen. Politics is a fulltime job,
and not something that can be easily combined with running a business.

The fringe candidates and their groupings may add to the interest of the
election, but most of them will of course be quite irrelevant. To be placed, for
instance, seventh on the Socialist Labour Party's South of Scotland list does
not offer a launching pad for a political career.

So what of the main parties? Here at least there is one very interesting
difference between Labour and the SNP. The SNP is much cannier, or perhaps less
confident.

Its leading figures are all wearing belt and braces. Even those who won a
constituency seat in 1999 feature on its regional lists.

So, for instance, if the leader, John Swinney, should happen to lose Tayside
North surely unthinkable he will still squeeze back into parliament because he
has been placed top of the SNP's Mid-Scotland and Fife list. But if Jack
McConnell should lose Motherwell and Wishaw, he will be out in the cold because
he is not on Labour's Central Scotland list.

In 1999 Mr McConnell's majority was 5,046 and Mr Swinney's 4,192.

Does this suggest that McConnell is splendidly confident and Swinney a bit
feart?

Incidentally, the LibDem leader, Jim Wallace, is sufficiently confident of
holding his Orkney seat to have left himself off his party's list, but then he
got 67 per cent of the votes in 1999.

The LibDems have boldly followed this policy everywhere except in the
North-East, where their two MSPs elected on the first constituency vote, Nicol
Stephen and Mike Rumbles, cannily head the party's list. But the SNP is playing
safe.

Most of its top people are more or less guaranteed to return.

Notable exceptions, however, are George Reid, Andrew Wilson, Mike Russell and,
of course, Margo MacDonald, who is standing as an Independent.

SOME parties can't count. In each of the seven regions there are eight list
seats. A party could win all eight only if it got no constituency seats and a
huge second vote. Winning any constituency seats makes it more difficult to win
list seats.

Nevertheless, in some regions parties are naming more than eight people on their
lists. It's no surprise that Tommy Sheridan's Ego-Trip Party can't count 12 list
candidates in the North-East or that the Greens ten in the South of Scotland are
similarly innumerate.

But, given the SNP's efforts over the last four years to persuade businessmen of
its competence, it's disturbing to find it fielding 11 list candidates in the
Highlands and Islands. The sums don't work out. Is this evidence of the SNP's
ability to manage a Budget?

As the late John Junor used to say: 'I think we should be told.'


LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
