
                                1 of 4 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             July 27, 2003, Sunday

BBC BACKS DOWN BBC governors uphold complaint on euro reports

BYLINE: by Christopher Booker

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 386 words

There was a modest little world first last week when the BBC governors
grudgingly upheld a complaint, not from Alastair Campbell, but from a listener
to the Today programme on January 2. The listener had objected to the
shamelessly one-sided way the programme was used to promote the case for Britain
to join the euro. A letter to Edward Bell from Sir Robert Smith, on behalf of
the Governors' Programme Complaints Committee, admitted that two of three
pro-euro items were not fairly "framed", such as introducing a Nobel
prize-winning economist as if he was some kind of objective guru, without
letting on that on his website he calls himself "the godfather of the euro".

The trouble with the BBC's pro-EU bias is that much of it is so unconscious that
its journalists are not even aware how unprofessional it makes them look. In
1999 I reported six occasions when the BBC, led by Today, had rushed to
publicise supposed claims by spokesmen for international companies such as
Toyota and Sony that, unless Britain joined the euro, they would pull out of the
UK. In each case the company issued a robust denial and it emerged that the BBC
had simply fallen for propaganda fed them by pro-euro lobbyists. But this made
them look so silly they did not broadcast a single correction.

In 2001, after a campaign by Lord Pearson of Rannoch to highlight the BBC's
pro-EU bias, Today promised to redress the balance by broadcasting a week of
items giving arguments for and against Britain's EU membership. The
programme-makers were so locked in their mindset, however, that only at the end
of the week did they have a sole contributor in favour of withdrawal. In a
shout-up with Neil Kinnock and other Europhiles, the UK Independence Party MEP
Nigel Farage was given just 35 seconds' airtime.

Last week, Lord Pearson had a letter from BBC chairman Gavyn Davies promising
that the governors "do take the issue of impartiality very seriously indeed",
and that "new guidelines" and "targets" had been drawn up to ensure that BBC
programmes "reflect the full range of views on Europe". What is interesting is
Mr Davies's claim that his latest data "reveal an improving picture", which
seems an admission that, bias-wise, the situation might not have been too hot.
[PS]News: [ES]

CHRISTOPHER BOOKER'S NOTEBOOK:

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 The Telegraph Group Limited

                                2 of 4 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             July 14, 2003, Monday

Mother goes first in race to become a Tory MP

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan

SECTION: Pg. 08

LENGTH: 483 words

UMA Fernandes had to beat off a family challenge to be selected as the Tory
candidate for the Brent East by-election, such is the appetite for Conservative
politics in her household.

The 55-year-old councillor and community nurse was keen to fight the seat but
first had to persuade her daughter, a Cambridge and Sorbonne-educated lawyer,
not to put her name forward. "You should let Mummy have a chance," she told her.

So Suella Fernandes, 23, who is also on the Central Office candidates list,
agreed to let her mother go first. Instead she will team up with her father to
distribute leaflets and promote her mother's interests with north-west London
voters. The by-election will be held at a date to be fixed in the autumn.

No one, not even Mrs Fernandes, expects the Tories to win the seat, which fell
vacant last month with the death of Paul Daisley. He won Brent East - the seat
once held by Ken Livingstone, the London mayor - in 2001 with a majority of more
than 13,000.

"Let's not kid ourselves," she said. "Brent East is a strong Labour seat. But
the mood is changing and people are tired of this Government. Labour is split
through the middle and it's all lies, lies, lies and damn lies."

Her selection is being seized on by Conservative Central Office as another small
step in the drive to show the party is not just a home for ambitious white men.

Conservatives have been accused of not doing enough to attract more non-white
candidates. When minority candidates are selected, critics say, it is usually
for an unwinnable seat such as Brent East.

Mrs Fernandes, who was born on the island of Mauritius in the Indian Ocean,
trained as a nurse in Aberdeen before moving to London. She is a community
nursing sister and has worked at Great Ormond Street children's hospital in
central London. She rejected the suggestion that she should be helped because of
her colour.

"It's true that it's only in the last few years that people from ethnic
minorities have come forward in this party," she said. "But why should I be
given a safe seat just because I'm Asian?

"I firmly believe people should advance on merit. People should work their way
up. If I do well and if I survive the campaign, I might get to fight a better
seat next time." She was a "hardened campaigner" who had fought the Liberal
Democrats on the doorstep in local elections.

In the 21st century, voters "vote for what you are rather than party or
policies".

Mrs Fernandes added: "I'm a natural-born Conservative. I can't stress enough
that being a nurse for nearly 30 years has left me with the strong belief that
everybody should be treated equally."

2001 general election:

Lab 18,325 (63.2 per cent); Con 5,278 (18.2 per cent); LD 3,065 (10.6 per cent);
Green 1,361 (4.7 per cent); ProLife 392 (1.4 per cent); SLP 383 (1.3 per cent);
UKIP 188 (0.6 per cent). Turnout: 49.9 per cent.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                                3 of 4 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            July 12, 2003, Saturday

EUniversity challenge Like many students, Kate Mansey and Steve McConville
didn't know what they thought of the single European currency. But that changed
when they were offered unparalleled access to Europe's corridors of power to
quiz the great and the good

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 814 words

DAY ONE

DINNER PARTIES AND

DICTATORS

"All the countries in the euro zone are at a dinner party. Britain is outside
being thrown a few crumbs. And it's raining," says Rene Carayol. He is, he says,
"massively pro" euro.

As a management consultant, Mr Carayol provided an excellent introductory litmus
test for our researches: he spoke so passionately and used statistics so freely
that we soon got lost and began to admire his lovely home.

Next up, the British fashion designer Katharine Hamnett. Describing herself as
"left of centre", she increased our confusion by arguing that the euro was
almost as bad as Hitler. Pro-Europe, she pointed out, did not necessarily mean
pro-euro.

VERDICT

Steve and Kate: On ne sait pas.

DAY TWO

CLOCKS, SHIPS AND

FENCE-SITTERS

"If we have convergence now, it doesn't necessarily mean we have it for ever,"
says the shadow chancellor, Michael Howard. "It could be like ships passing in
the night. Even a broken clock tells the right time twice a day." Mr Howard
seemed quite pleased with this metaphor, so pleased that he used it again - in
the House of Commons when responding to Gordon Brown's euro statement. Still, he
was very convincing. He bombarded us with numerous reasons why we should shy
away from joining the euro.

The UK Independence Party leader, Jeffrey Titford, was predictably anti-euro,
but, amusingly, very easily caught out. When we put it to him that his party was
bound to suggest Britain had not fully met the terms of the Chancellor's five
tests because it was anti-euro, he replied: "Well yes, yes." Such incoherency
pushed us towards the pro camp.

Next, we met the Liberal Democrat trade and industry spokesman, Vincent Cable,
in Portcullis House. He was nice, but a bit of a fence-sitter, too. Having said
he was pro-euro, he made no attempt to push us either way.

VERDICT

Steve: Non, monsieur.

Kate: Oui, madame.

DAY THREE

PUNTS AND PINTS

Next stop Dublin, where we met a very unhappy cabbie. Did we know that since
Ireland had adopted the euro in 2001, he had had to pay a fortune changing the
metered equipment in his car? That prices had rocketed? These lessons were
unlikely to be lost on us. Throughout our whole trip across Euroland, cabbies
were united in giving the single currency the thumbs down.

Phillip Hammel, a senior civil servant responsible for Ireland's changeover to
the euro, took a rather different view. "It was like laying lino on a rough
surface," he says. "Our job was to smooth out the bumps." They did it well,
because within a week of the changeover 90 per cent of all cash transactions
made on the emerald isle were in euros."

But what did the man on the street think? Over a couple of pints of Guinness, we
found a cocktail of views. Some waxed lyrical over the benefits that the euro
had brought to trade in the country; others lamented rising prices and the loss
of the punt.

VERDICT

Steve and Kate: Ah, to be sure!

DAY FOUR

LOGIC AND LOQUACITY

To Brussels, to meet Neil Kinnock, the European Commission's vice-president.
Kinnock is as pro-euro as they come, but we had some testing questions for him.
What would happen if we gave up control over setting our own interest rates?
When will there be a referendum? Is New Labour divided over the euro? Are Gordon
Brown's economic tests a smokescreen?

In reply, Mr Kinnock spoke freely about his grandchildren and the 1974 general
election. His affability when we weren't recording was matched only by his
defensiveness when we were. Most of Mr Kinnock's argument for the euro was very
passionate, but whatever logic it was founded on was lost in the thickets and
curlicues of his sentence structure.

When asked whether Gordon Brown was as committed as he to joining the euro, Mr
Kinnock answered with an uncharacteristically monosyllabic "Yes", although he
was looking down at the time and holding his hand across his mouth. Still, his
enthusiasm for Britain joining the euro was contagious.

VERDICT

Steve: Non, monsieur.

Kate: Oui, madame.

DAY FIVE

EU DECIDE

With a little help from the BBC economics editor, Evan Davies, and Radio 5's
chief political correspondent, John Pienaar, we moved towards a decision. Both
men put forward disinterested arguments for and against Britain's signing up to
the single currency, and it's perhaps testimony to how balanced the debate is
that the two of us just couldn't agree. For all the people we had spoken to, all
the arguments we had heard, no one could convince us both to join one side.

Tony Blair and Gordon Brown are going to have their work cut out if they want to
win a referendum.

FINAL VERDICT

Steve: No, well, not yet anyway (now where have we heard that one before?).

Kate: Yes, please.

Steve McConville is the manager of Leeds Student Radio. Kate Mansey is the news
editor of 'Leeds Student' newspaper.
[PS]Weekend: [ES]

Student life:

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                                4 of 4 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             July 06, 2003, Sunday

SHUTTLE DIPLOMACY Reprieve for Scilly flights

BYLINE: by CHRISTOPHER BOOKER

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 230 words

On May 25 I reported how Britain's only scheduled helicopter service, on which
the Scilly Isles depend for survival, seemed doomed by a proposed EU regulation
compelling airlines to pay up to pounds 415 in "delayed boarding" compensation
to any traveller who cannot be given a seat booked at the scheduled time.
Because British International's Scilly Isles shuttle service is reliant on two
helicopters, which may sometimes be delayed for mechanical repairs or safety
checks, the regulation as interpreted by Britain's Civil Aviation Authority
would force it out of business.

When the directive was last week approved by the European Parliament, no one
pointed out that an inevitable consequence will be to raise air fares for
everyone. But at least - thanks to a sudden alliance between the UK Independence
Party and Labour MEPs, which the Conservatives failed to join - a solution to
the Scilly Isles problem was suggested to the Brussels transport commissioner,
Loyola de Palacio.

Despite the CAA's interpretation of the regulation, she promised MEPs Mark Watts
and Graham Booth that she would consider an amendment exempting the Scillonian
service, as a "social carrier". Not for the first time the Commission was
embarrassed to discover over-zealous UK officials wanting to use its laws to
destroy British businesses in a way it never intended.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 The Telegraph Group Limited
