
                               1 of 16 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            November 27, 2006 Monday

Andrew must be seen to pull trigger on Robinson

BYLINE: Brian Moore

SECTION: SPORT; Rugby Union; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 540 words


SADLY for Andy Robinson, there was little to bolster his cause from England's
loss to South Africa. Now he is paying the price by being told to either resign,
or be sacked.

At Twickenham on Saturday the back row was still unbalanced, centre pairings and
half-back pairings unsolved and tactical direction was an oxymoron.

I don't know whether it was the full stop in a suicide note, but Robinson's
substitution of Toby Flood for Andy Goode with only five minutes to go was so
obtuse that I thought it must be the act of a man who doesn't care. As Robinson
is not and never has been that, what does it say about his present state of
thinking? Maybe he knew something we didn't.

Let's get this straight. Robinson is responsible for the poor selections made
over the past two seasons, selections that have left England no further forward
than they were immediately after their World Cup triumph. He is not responsible
for the inexplicable and unforgivable failures made by the players in their
basic skills and poor choice of options.

I strongly suspect that the decision that Robinson must go was really made after
the Argentina game and, if so, it should have been executed at that time because
all else was disingenuous.

It will be interesting to see who announces the decision and who takes
responsibility for it. Rob Andrew must be that person as he must be seen to be
in control of this area and to accept responsibility for his choices. He must
also lead the search for a replacement. The confusion of roles between Andrew
and Francis Baron has not helped and Baron should have little or no say in rugby
selections.

Further confusion was created by failure to demarcate Robinson's role. He came
as a very successful forwards coach and then appeared to be in charge of both
management and coaching. With Brian Ashton and John Wells you have good backs
and forwards coaches; if you want a head coach to co-ordinate then that is
separate from the job of a manager who has to head the whole affair and, most
importantly, must take control of the selection.

It is this last point that is vital. A simple study of England's post-war
playing record shows a direct correlation of failure with multiple selections;
more players, less wins, simple as that.

I see no reason why Martin Johnson could not successfully fulfil the manager's
role. Enormous credibility and recent knowledge of the players available for
England would be allied to a deceptively sharp brain and every effort should be
made to get him to at least consider the job.

I see no reason thereafter to limit the role to Englishmen. What is needed is
the best, not the best non-foreigner. I realise that this will lie ill in the
mouth of many, but these are the people who vote for UKIP and would secretly
like to vote BNP, so they don't count. There are a number of candidates and I
would throw in Eddie Jones, the former Wallaby who is an extremely astute man.
Whatever is done Andrew must take enough time to ensure he is fully satisfied
with the selection and its process.

It could be said that I offer little in the way of solutions, sitting
conveniently on the side with the power of public comment without
responsibility; but I am not being paid pounds 400,000 a year to sort it out.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 16 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           November 26, 2006, Sunday

HITLER'S ON THE VERGE OF VICTORY

BYLINE: BY NIGEL NELSON

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 108 words

HIGHLIGHT: DOMINATION: Hitler


HITLER'S dream is about to come true - with a Treaty of BERLIN next year.

Britain and other EU countries will be tied to a single European constitution if
German Chancellor Angela Merkel has her way.

And the treaty would come into force on the 75th anniversary of Hitler coming to
power.

The power-crazed EU plan was scuppered two years ago by voters in France and
Holland.

But now Frau Merkel wants to use Germany's six-month EU presidency to push it
through at a summit in Berlin on March 25 - WITHOUT asking voters.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "They are not bothered about
what the voters think."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.

                               3 of 16 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            November 26, 2006 Sunday

EU change to wills law would overturn British tradition

BYLINE: JUSTIN STARES in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 356 words


WRITING AN errant child out of your will or leaving an apartment to a secret
mistress would become illegal under legislation now working its way through the
European Union machine.

The European Parliament has called for a common approach to the law on bequests
and succession that would bring countries such as Britain more closely into line
with those such as France where most of a deceased person's estate must be left
to close relations.

Adoption of the "reserved portion'' principle, intended to safeguard the family,
would turn Britain's ancient traditions on their head.

The legislation, written by the Italian MEP Giuseppe Gargani and approved by a
big majority in the parliament plenary, is considered necessary because growing
numbers of EU residents now hold assets, usually property, in another EU
country. Each year there are up to 100,000 "transnational successions'', which
can become bogged down in the EU's differing national legal systems.

MEPs want to establish common principles and a "European certificate of
inheritance'', valid across the EU, to remove difficulties heirs face in taking
possession of property left to them.

The reserved portion principle was an essential tenet of public policy, Mr
Gargani said. "A portion of the estate must necessarily be reserved for the
closest relatives of the deceased.''

Solicitors in England (Scotland operates its own succession laws) said that the
plan would be a "big departure''. Roger Wilson, a partner with the law firm
Malcolm, Wilson and Cobby, which specialises in wills and succession, said: "In
England if you have an apartment you can leave it to your mistress but in France
you cannot.''

The reserved portion principle is common in countries, including Italy, that
operate under the Napoleonic code.

Jeremy Wilson, a partner with Clarkson, Wright and Jakes, said: "There could
also be a problem with trusts as the continental system doesn't recognise
them.''

Godfrey Bloom, MEP for the UK Independence Party, said: "Our system of wills has
kept our agriculture viable. In France because of their reserved portion law,
farms have been broken into small, unviable pieces.''

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 16 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            November 24, 2006 Friday

David Cameron

SECTION: THE WHIP; OPINION

LENGTH: 127  words


TORY leader David Cameron may not be getting many bouquets from hardliners
within his own party but a huge floral display was delivered to him yesterday
from an arch-rival. UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage sent him a massive
bunch of flowers after Dave's aides urged grassroots Conservatives to ditch
Winston Churchill as their icon and embrace lefty Guardian writer Polly Toynbee.
Farage claims he's been deluged with membership applications from disaffected
Tories since the outburst. A card attached to the thank-you tribute - which
included a large pair of ornamental cabbages - said: "Dear Dave, Your
recruitment efforts for UKIP have been truly exceptional. People are now
flocking to join us. Please accept this token of our profound appreciation."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 16 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 21, 2006 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended

News: The Litvinenko affair: Anti-terror chief leads investigation as poison
victim tells of second meeting: Officers to investigate contact with Russians in
hotel room and restaurant date with Italian academic as doctors give Alexander
Litvinenko only a 50% chance of survival

BYLINE: Sandra Laville, Jeevan Vasagar, Richard Norton-Taylor, Tom Parfitt, John
Hooper and Sarah Boseley

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1538 words


The investigation

The head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch took over the investigation
yesterday into the suspected poisoning of a Russian dissident in London as
security sources said they were not discounting the involvement of Kremlin
officials.

Peter Clarke, a deputy assistant commissioner at the Metropolitan Police, was
brought in to run the inquiry as it emerged that Alexander Litvinenko might not
have been poisoned during a meeting with an Italian contact, Mario Scaramella,
at the Itsu sushi restaurant in Piccadilly on November 1.

Earlier that day, the dissident had a separate meeting with two Russians at a
central London hotel.

Mr Litvinenko told friends from his hospital bed in London yesterday that he had
tea at the hotel with Andrei Lugovoy, a former member of the KGB who has links
to the London-based multimillionaire Boris Berezovsky and another man, who has
not been named.

Alex Goldfarb, a close friend, said police had been interviewing Mr Litvinenko
for several hours a day. He said all options should be explored, including
whether the poison might have been sprinkled into Mr Litvinenko's tea at the
hotel meeting. He said: "I called Alexander in hospital . . . he told me it is
true, on that day, before meeting the Italian, he met with two Russians."

He added that Mr Litvinenko had told police about the two men.

Later that day Mr Litvinenko, who was investigating last month's murder by a
hitman of the Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya, met Mr Scaramella at the
Itsu sushi restaurant. It was here that Mr Scaramella passed on information
about who had gunned down Ms Politkovskaya.

Akhmed Zakayev, a Chechen separatist spokesman living in London, said he had met
Mr Litvinenko on November 1 after his meeting with the Italian. "He called me
and told me over the phone that he will have very important information about
who killed Anna Politkovskaya," said Mr Zakayev. "Then I gave him a lift home
half an hour after the meeting. He was reading the document he had received and
he was very excited. It's my opinion this was serious information."

The next day Mr Litvinenko called an ambulance and was taken to Barnet Hospital.
He deteriorated and he was moved to University College Hospital, where he
remained under armed guard having been moved into intensive care.

A spokesman for the Metropolitan police said yesterday detectives were trawling
CCTV footage from the hotel and other London locations. Police are also awaiting
results of toxicology tests before confirming reports that he had been poisoned
with thallium.

Anti-terrorist officers are understood to be working with MI5 on the inquiry.

The Italian

The Italian academic who was with Alexander Litvinenko on the day he was
poisoned is in hiding in Rome in fear for his life, friends said yesterday.
Mario Scaramella met Mr Litvinenko at the sushi restaurant to pass on
information about the murder of Anna Politkovskaya.

Gerard Batten, a Ukip MEP for the London region, said the Italian was keen to
speak to police. "I rang him yesterday. He was on his way to hospital, to get a
test to make sure he wasn't contaminated. He's also quite worried for his own
safety, and wants to make plain that he had nothing to do with it. He's more
than willing to cooperate with the British authorities."

Mr Batten caused a stir in Italy in April when he alleged at the European
parliament that the Italian prime minister, Romano Prodi, had KGB connections.
Mr Litvinenko was the main source for the allegation.

"(Dr Scaramella) was concerned because the reason he came over wasn't ostensibly
to talk about this journalist, although they did talk about that," Mr Batten
said. "He got a tip-off that his life and Litvinenko's was going to be in danger
from the secret services. He got a tip-off from another contact whose name I
won't mention. Litvinenko didn't think it was that serious. They went their
separate ways and then Litvinenko fell ill."

Dr Scaramella is a consultant to the Mitrokhin inquiry, set up by the Italian
parliament to investigate KGB activities in Italy.

Senator Paolo Guzzanti, chairman of the commission in charge of the Mitrokhin
inquiry, said Dr Scaramella had taken his entire family to London after threats
and a robbery at his house in Naples, but Dr Scaramella himself was now in Rome.

Health

The seriousness of Alexander Litvinenko's condition became apparent yesterday;
he has been given only a 50-50 chance of surviving the next four weeks, and on
Sunday night he was readmitted to intensive care as a precaution. According to
Stephen Rowley, clinical lead for haematology atUCH, there has been a "slight
deterioration in his condition".

According to his friend Alex Goldfarb, the formerly fit Mr Litvinenko had an
inflammation of the throat, so that he could not swallow and had to be fed
intravenously. He was very weak and could only speak with difficulty.

"He has potential for heart failure, and his immune system is knocked out,
making him very susceptible to infection," he said. Mr Litvenko's body has
apparently producing no white blood cells, which fight infections.

After the early nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea, some of the symptoms experienced
by people who have ingested thallium include headaches, breathing problems,
damage to the optic nerves, muscle pain and muscle wasting, loss of reflexes,
convulsions, coma, delirium, dementia and psychosis.

Three weeks in, they may suffer irregular heart rhythms. If the toxin is
identified quickly enough, it can be treated, but left too late, the patient may
suffer long-term neurological damage, if they recover at all - particularly loss
of feeling in their fingers and toes.

The mortality rate is about 6-15%, but a third to a half of those poisoned
suffer neurological or eye damage.

Professor John Henry, clinical toxicologist at St Mary's Hospital in London, who
is also involved in Mr Litvinenko's treatment, said that accidental poisoning by
thallium "just can't happen" because there is no publicly available source of
it.

He said that the metal is used by hospitals for heart imaging but is no longer
used for rat poison in Britain. He said: "The majority of the damage is done by
the time you get to 10 days. You need to get to it after 24 to 36 hours. What
can be done now is supportive treatment, and just hope he gets better.

"Once somebody gets over the first two to three weeks he has a very good chance
of recovery."

Prof Henry said he had been involved in treating six other cases of thallium
poisoning in Britain, four of whom were Iraqi Kurds exiled to Britain while
Saddam Hussien was in power, another was a laboratory worker who poisoned
himself and the sixth was a possible homicide.

Thallium is a poisoner's dream - colourless, odourless, tasteless and easy to
absorb. It was once used to treat syphilis, gonorrhea, ringworm and
tuberculosis, until it was realised that some of the patients died. More than
10-15mg per kilo of body weight can be lethal.

Moscow

The Kremlin dismissed accusations that it poisoned Mr Litvinenko, describing the
claim as "pure nonsense". News that the 43-year-old ex-colonel is in serious
condition in hospital in London has not featured on tightly-controlled Russian
television.

Litvinenko's friends have blamed Moscow for trying to kill the former spy, who
fled to the UK in 2000. But Russian political analysts and security service
veterans cast doubt on suggestions that Moscow had attempted to rub out Mr
Litvinenko for his opposition to President Vladimir Putin.

Mr Litvinenko is widely seen in Russia as a stooge paid by the anti-Kremlin
oligarch and London exile, Boris Berezovsky, to blacken Mr Putin and his circle.
"He's a notorious provocateur," said Alexander Khinstein, an author and
investigative journalist. When asked to respond to the poisoning accusations, a
Kremlin spokesman, Dmitry Petrov, said: "There is no need to comment on
statements that are pure nonsense."

The SVR (foreign intelligence service) said it had not killed anyone abroad
since assassinating the Ukrainian nationalist Stepan Bandera in 1959.

Many observers said they were so sceptical of the story that they believed Mr
Litvinenko had poisoned himself or was attacked by people close to him in order
to discredit the Kremlin.

"There are assassination attempts and there imitations of them," said the MP and
former federal security service (FSB) colonel, Gennady Gudkov. "I would advise
Mr Litvinenko to look for the poisoner among his own entourage."

Litvinenko came under Berezovsky's influence in the 1990s when the businessman
was a powerful figure in the Kremlin and was locked in a power struggle with the
head of the FSB, said Mr Khinstein. The officer was used to discredit the FSB
director Nikolai Kovalyov by claiming there had been a plot to kill Mr
Berezovsky.

Nikolai Petrov, an analyst at the Moscow Carnegie Centre said of the poisoning:
"It could be punishment, revenge or a provocation but it's unlikely it was done
to stop Litvinenko doing something or releasing (damaging) information. He
played out his political role long ago." Mr Gudkov said the special services had
no reason to kill Mr Litvinenko. "He posed no threat at all to the state. There
would have been no point in breaking lances (wasting effort) on him."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 23, 2006 Thursday



CORRECTION: * In our front-page report November 21, about the poisoned Russian
Alexander Litvinenko, we misnamed the Kremlin spokesman. He is Dmitry Peskov,
not Dmitry Petrov.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 21, 2006 Tuesday
                                 3 Star Edition

YOUR LIFE'S IN DANGER;
EXCLUSIVE WHAT SPY WAS TOLD ON DAY HE WAS POISONED..

BYLINE: BY GRAHAM BROUGH IN ROME AND JON CLEMENTS, CRIME CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 550 words


RUSSIAN exile Alexander Litvinenko was warned his life was in danger on the day
he was poisoned.

Italian professor Mario Scaramella told him both men were on a hit list as they
dined together at a West End sushi restaurant.

But it is possible that as he received the warning he was already suffering the
effects of poison after an earlier meeting with two Russians at a hotel.

UK Independence Party MEP Gerard Batten, who ' has met Litvinenko three times
this year, said: "Mario told me the main reason he saw him in London was to warn
him that both were in danger.

"Mario had received in formation from another Russian defector that they could
be at risk from the Russian security services." Shortly before going into
hiding, Scaramella told the Mirror in Rome: "I've had tests to see if there's
anything wrong with me. They think I'm OK."

Litvinenko - an ex-colonel in the Russian security service FSB, formerly the KGB
- is a fierce critic of the Kremlin which is accused of trying to assassinate
him.

He fell seriously ill nearly three weeks ago after dining at Itsu Japanese
restaurant, in Piccadilly, with Scaramella. It was found he was poisoned with
deadly thallium which destroyed his bone marrow.

He is now fighting for life under armed police guard in University College
Hospital, London. Yesterday a picture showed him gaunt and weak propped up in
bed surrounded by a battery of medical equipment. Nearly all his hair has fallen
out.

Close friend Alex Goldfarb said: "He used to be very fit and ran five miles a
day.

"Now he looks like a cancer patient. It's hard for him to talk but he has spoken
to police who interview him every day."

Asked who was behind the poisoning, he replied: "The Russian government.

"Up to now all of us who were considered enemies of the FSB felt safe because we
felt protected on Western soil. This is the first time that I feel unsafe."

Itsu staff and Mr Scaramella are not thought to be suspects.

It is now thought Litvinenko, 41, may have been poisoned at a London hotel where
he met a former KGB officer and his friend Andrei Lugovoy, a security expert,
before going on to the restaurant.

Oleg Gordievsky, former KGB station head in London and an MI6 double agent, is
convinced his friend Litvinenko was dosed at the hotel on Kremlin orders.

He said: "Why should this Italian (Scaramella) do it? I know him - he is a solid
respectable man. Sasha (Litvinenko) was feeling unwell before the lunch. He was
poisoned before he met the Italian."

Exiled Russian tycoon Boris Berezovsky made a second visit to Mr Litvinenko in
hospital last night. He said: "He hasn't changed his mind. He still thinks that
it was organised in Moscow and Putin gave the order to poison him because he is
former KGB."

It is believed Litvinenko met Scaramella - said to work for Italian and US
secret services - to receive documents claiming to name the killers of
journalist Anna Politkovskaya. Ms Politkovskaya was a determined critic of the
Putin regime.

Last night Scotland Yard's SO15 counter terrorism unit was heading an
"extensive" investigation into the mystery.

The Kremlin furiously denied any involvement describing assassination claims as
"nonsense". In London, the Russian Embassy said Litvinenko's illness was an
"accident", declaring: "We're not worried about it."

g.brough@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THE CONTACT Professor Mario Scaramella' THE FRIEND Alex Goldfarb' THE
SPY Sickly Litvinenko in hospital yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 21, 2006 Tuesday
                                  Eire Edition

FROM RUSSIA WITH LOATHE;
THE POISONED SPY THE RAVAGED FACE OF MURDER BID VICTIM

BYLINE: BY JON CLEMENTS AND VICTORIA WARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 340 words


THIS is the first picture of Russian spy Alexander Litvinenko since his dramatic
poisoning.

The 41-year-old former agent stares helplessly from a hospital bed yesterday as
he fights for his life under armed guard.

As his condition worsened, it emerged last night that Litvinenko was warned his
life was in danger on the day he was poisoned.

Italian professor Mario Scaramella told him both men were on a hit list as they
dined together at a West End sushi restaurant.

But it is possible that as he received the warning he was already suffering the
effects of poison after an earlier meeting with two Russians at a hotel.

UK Independence Party MEP Gerard Batten, who has met Litvinenko three times this
year, said: "Mario told me the main reason he saw him in London was to warn him
that both were in danger.

"Mario had received information from another Russian defector that they could be
at risk from the Russian security services."

Shortly before going into hiding, Scaramella told the Mirror in Rome: "I've had
tests to see if there's anything wrong with me. They think I'm OK."

Litvinenko - an ex-colonel in the Russian security service FSB, formerly the KGB
- is a fierce critic of the Kremlin which is accused of trying to assassinate
him.

He fell seriously ill nearly three weeks ago after dining at Itsu Japanese
restaurant, in Piccadilly, with Scaramella.

It was found he was poisoned with deadly thallium which destroyed his bone
marrow.

He is now fighting for life under armed police guard in University College
Hospital, London. Yesterday a picture showed him gaunt and weak propped up in
bed surrounded by a battery of med ical equipment. Nearly all his hair has
fallen out.

Itsu staff and Mr Scaramella are not thought to be suspects.

It is now thought Litvinenko, 41, may have been poisoned at a London hotel where
he met a former KGB officer and his friend Andrei Lugovoy, a security ex pert,
before going on to the restaurant.

The Kremlin furiously denied any involvement describing assassination claims as
"nonsense".

g.brough@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THE SPY Sickly Litvinenko in hospital yesterday' THE CONTACT Professor
Mario Scaramella

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 21, 2006 Tuesday
                                 1 Star Edition

YOUR LIFE'S IN DANGER;
EXCLUSIVE WHAT SPY WAS TOLD ON DAY HE WAS POISONED..

BYLINE: BY GRAHAM BROUGH IN ROME AND JON CLEMENTS, CRIME CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 556 words


RUSSIAN exile Alexander Litvinenko was warned his life was in danger on the day
he was poisoned.

Italian professor Mario Scaramella told him both men were on a hit list as they
dined together at a West End sushi restaurant.

But it is possible that he was ALREADY suffering the effects of poison after
earlier meeting two Russians at a hotel.

UK Independence Party MEP Gerard Batten, who has met Litvinenko three times this
year, said: "Mario told me the reason he saw him in London was to warn him that
both were in danger.

"Mario had received information from another Russian defector that they could be
at risk from the Russian security services."

Last night Scaramella said in Rome: "I met Litvinenko for a variety of reasons.
I want to tell the world I didn't poison him and have nothing to do with this.

"I've been very worried about it all and think I've been followed. I've been to
hospital for tests which have proved clear."

Litvinenko - an ex-colonel in the Russian security service FSB, formerly the KGB
- is a fierce critic of the Kremlin which is accused of trying to assassinate
him. He fell seriously ill nearly three weeks ago after dining at Itsu Japanese
restaurant, in Piccadilly, with Scaramella. It was found he was poisoned with
deadly thallium which destroyed his bone marrow.

He is now fighting for life under armed police guard in University College
Hospital, London. Yesterday a picture showed him gaunt and weak propped up in
bed surrounded by a battery of medical equipment. Nearly all his hair has fallen
out.

Close friend Alex Goldfarb said: "He used to be very fit and ran five miles a
day. Now he looks like a cancer patient. It's hard for him to talk but he has
spoken to police who interview him every day."

Asked who was behind the poisoning, he replied: "The Russian government.

"Up to now all of us who were considered enemies of the FSB felt safe because we
felt protected on Western soil. This is the first time that I feel unsafe."

Itsu staff and Mr Scaramella are not thought to be suspects.

It is now thought Litvinenko, 41, may have been poisoned at a London hotel where
he met a former KGB officer and his friend Andrei Lugovoy, a security expert,
before going on to the restaurant.

Oleg Gordievsky, former KGB station head in London and an MI6 double agent, is
convinced his friend Litvinenko was dosed at the hotel on Kremlin orders.

He said: "Why should this Italian (Scaramella) do it? I know him - he is a solid
respectable man. Sasha (Litvinenko) was feeling unwell before the lunch. He was
poisoned before he met the Italian." Exiled Russian tycoon Boris Berezovsky
visited Mr Litvinenko in hospital last night.

He said: "He hasn't changed his mind. He still thinks that it was organised in
Moscow and Putin gave the order to poison him because he is former KGB. It is a
message that no one can leave without being killed or seriously damaged."

It is believed Litvinenko met Scaramella - said to work for Italian and US
secret services - to receive documents claiming to name the killers of
journalist Anna Politkovskaya.

Ms Politkovskaya was a determined critic of the Putin regime.

Last night Scotland Yard's SO15 counter terrorism unit was heading an
"extensive" investigation into the mystery.

The Kremlin furiously denied any involvement describing assassination claims as
"nonsense".

g.brough@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THE CONTACT Professor Mario Scaramella' THE SPY Ailing Litvinenko in
hospital yesterday' THE FRIEND Alex Goldfarb

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 16 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                           November 21, 2006 Tuesday

Dinner pal death fear

BYLINE: Julie Moult In Naples

LENGTH: 202  words


THIS is the first picture of the man who was with ex-Russian spy Alexander
Litvinenko for the "poison" meal.

Italian academic Mario Scaramella is now on the run, fearing an attempt on HIS
life.

He is a consultant on the Italian government's Mitrokhin Commission
investigating KGB activities in Italy.

Prof Scaramella, from Naples, has had medical tests and remains under armed
guard at a Rome hospital in case he suffers a delayed reaction to any poison.

UKIP MEP Gerard Batten, who spoke to Prof Scaramella before he went into hiding,
said yesterday: "Scaramella is fearful."

Friends say he denies having anything to do with the attempt on Mr Litvinenko.
One said: "Mario is very worried. He is sure he is being followed and had the
tests at a hospital as a precaution."

Two years ago a gunman from the Camorra, the Naples Mafia, tried to kill Prof
Scaramella.

Last night it was reported he had met Mr Litvinenko to discuss an alleged plot
to kill him and the Mitrokhin committee chairman Paolo Guzzanti.

Prof Scaramella was said to have been given information by Russian secret
service contacts.

A friend of his said: "Mario met Litvinenko to discuss the information he had
received about plans to kill him and Guzzanti."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 16 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                           November 21, 2006 Tuesday

PM Prodi 'is Russian spy'

SECTION: POLITICIAN'S AMAZING ADMISSION

LENGTH: 82  words


ITALIAN PM Romano Prodi has been bizarrely accused of being a KGB agent by
Alexander Litvinenko.

The poisoned former spy told his UKIP Euro MP Gerard Batten Mr Prodi was the
KGB's "man in Italy".

Litvinenko sought help from General Anatoly Trofimov, ex-deputy Russian secret
service chief, after he was forced to seek political asylum.

Mr Batten told the European Parliament General Trofimov reportedly said: "Don't
go to Italy. There are KGB agents among the politicians. Prodi is our man
there."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               November 19, 2006

INVESTIGATION: Revealed: the true cost of Olympics: With a possible final bill
of £ 8bn London's 2012 Olympics could be the most costly sports event ever, says
a report obtained by The Observer. Why were the original figures so much lower?

BYLINE: Denis Campbell

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1760 words


City Hall, Ken Livingstone's egg-shaped headquarters in the shadow of Tower
Bridge, hosted many of the meetings, press conferences and receptions that paved
the way for London's unexpected but euphoric victory last year in the race to
stage the 2012 Olympics. Last Wednesday morning it was the scene of a much more
sombre and fractious gathering that will be remembered as the moment when the
optimism surrounding that triumph gave way to the complicated and expensive
reality of bringing the world's greatest sporting event to Britain.

The truth sank in at the talks in the chamber on the second floor, where 22 of
the capital's 25 elected members of the London Assembly occupied their desks. In
front of them sat Sir Roy McNulty and David Higgins, the interim chairman and
chief executive respectively of the Olympic Delivery Authority, the body charged
with building an array of sporting venues and regenerating a swath of the East
End well before the 200-odd competing nations arrive in July 2012.

After the assembly chairman, Brian Coleman, opened the proceedings, the
chamber's two plasma screens displayed a photograph of Jack Lemley, a veteran
American construction entrepreneur who until last month had been the delivery
authority chairman. Then, over the public address system, came an audio
recording of an interview Lemley gave recently to his home town newspaper in
Idaho about the progress of 2012, soon after he surprisingly left 'to spend more
time pursuing his business interests in the United States'.

McNulty and Higgins, already looking uncomfortable ahead of a planned grill ing
by assembly members, visibly tensed. 'They looked decidedly awkward,' said one
witness.

Their discomfort grew. As the DVD played, Lemley was heard warning that the
costs of putting on the Olympics, which everyone involved had always insisted
would be no more than £ 2.375bn, would rise exponentially. He predicted that
major building projects would be late. That political interference had
bedevilled his efforts. That the £ 280m new Olympic Stadium was mired in
disputes over what it should be used for once the last Olympic final had been
staged.

If seven time zones away in Boise, Idaho, Lemley was listening, he would have
taken what emerged from the questioning, first of the pair from the authority,
then of the Mayor of London, as vindicating much of what he had told the Idaho
Statesman. The costs had increased 'significantly' since London's victory in
Singapore in July 2005, McNulty confirmed, blaming rises in the price of
security and regeneration and the need to establish a bigger than expected
contingency fund to cover construction cost overruns: £ 5bn was now a much more
realistic figure than the original £ 2.4bn, it emerged.

Some assembly members were surprised to hear McNulty dismiss the original £
2.4bn budget as nothing more than 'a concept developed in a matter of months'
when London was putting together its bid for 2012. Assembly members of all
parties were unimpressed and concerned by what they heard. But, they asked,
weren't the public told endlessly during the two-year bidding process that the
costs had been carefully worked out and rigorously checked? How could costs have
risen so dramatically, so quickly? Were the figures underestimated to help gain
public approval?

Livingstone was more forthcoming. For example, he detailed how the original
security budget of £ 190m had now, post 7/7, been revised to £ 850m. There was
also the extra money needed to build 40,000 new homes in the Olympics zone at £
1bn-£ 1.5bn above the £ 1bn originally set aside for regeneration. However,
asked if the soaring costs of 2012 would leave London council tax payers footing
even more of the bill than the £ 625m they are already facing, the mayor
replied: 'I may not be here in 18 months. Any guarantee I give about what
happens in 2012 is not worth the paper it is written on.'

In such circumstances it is no wonder that concern is growing that the Olympics
is in danger of becoming a huge and ever-increasing financial black hole. It is
a worry shared by elected members from all the five parties represented on the
London Assembly: Labour, Conservative, Lib Dem, Green and One London, formerly
UKIP. Coleman says: 'The original £ 2.4bn budget was wildly inaccurate. They're
now saying that it will be £ 5bn. But I would be surprised if they bring it in
for under £ 9bn. It's likely to end up at around £ 10bn. And at this rate of
rise it could be at £ 20bn by 2012. That may strike people as overly
pessimistic, but who would have said Wembley would be a year late and cost £
1bn?'

The issue of exactly how much 2012 will cost, and who pays for the overruns,
will take centre stage again this week, when the assembly's cross-party budget
committee debates a report it has produced - passed to The Observer - on the
financing of the event.

Written before last Wednesday's revelations, the assembly document puts the
total cost of the Games as £ 4.4bn, at a time when London 2012 officials were
still sticking to the £ 2.4bn now widely seen as a colossal miscalculation.
However, given the new information, assembly members say that to calculate the
true likely overall cost another £ 4.4bn needs to be added. This includes:

The extra costs that were finally identified last week - £ 1.5bn for
regeneration and £ 660m on security.

The £ 250m for VAT on construction work that did not appear in the original
budget submitted to the IOC.

Money to cover a Treasury demand for a contingency fund stretching to 60 per
cent of the whole budget.;

The quickly rising cost to the London Development Agency of buying land in the
East End for the Games: the revised figure of £ 1bn, up from a planned £ 478m,
is likely, by the LDA's own admission to the committee, to rise again to £
1.5bn.

From those figures, it is easy to see why assembly members now put the real
budget for 2012 at around £ 8bn. Peter Hulme Cross, one of the One London
Party's two members, says: 'It could be £ 8bn, and that wouldn't surprise me. I
think we'll end up around £ 10bn. That's an awful lot of money to pay for four
weeks of sport.

'The £ 2.4bn was fanciful and unrealis tic, but I don't think it was necessarily
deliberate deceit. To win the Games, they had to put in a figure that was
acceptable both to the IOC and the British public. But the powers-that-be just
hadn't costed the thing realistically.' Others, more cynically but without hard
evidence, believe that someone, must have deliberately downplayed the costs.

Soon after London's victory, cracks began to appear in the London 2012
alliance's insistence that £ 2.4bn would cover it. In September the government
was forced to acknowledge for the first time, to this newspaper, that it was
putting in £ 1bn to help regenerate the Lower Lea Valley, beside the planned
Olympic Park where many of the 2012 events will be held.

By the following month, the Culture and Sports Secretary Tessa Jowell had begun
emphasising controlling costs rather than sticking to the line of 'absolute cast
iron guarantees' that £ 2.4bn was a final figure - even though around the same
time Lord Coe denied an Observer report that the final budget would be around
the £ 5bn suggested last week.

The bombs that exploded in London on 7 July 2005, the day after the capital was
awarded the Games, are cited as the reason for the huge jump in the security
budget. But as one Assembly source put it: 'Everyone had said before 7/7 that
London was a target and needed to be prepared, so why did it take bombs actually
going off for someone to make a proper assessment of the costs of guarding a
huge event like the Olympics?'

Similar questions can be asked about the delivery authority tripling its budget
for buying and cleaning up land in the Lea Valley from £ 478m to, now, £ 1.44bn.
Prime redevelopment land there was never going to be that cheap. Was it
misjudgment or over-confidence?

Behind the facade of Olympic unity that covers all the 2012 stakeholders -
government, mayor, British Olympic Association and Olympic Organising Committee
- a furious row is going on about whether the contingency budget needs to be 20
per cent of the total - Livingstone's preference - or the 60 per cent the
Treasury has demanded. But the fact that the keepers of the government's purse
strings feel obliged to seek such a large reserve - the construction industry
norm is 20 per cent - speaks volumes about the growing apprehension behind the
scenes. There are a host of other actual or potential problems. One reason why
Lemley resigned, it emerged yesterday, was because he was frustrated at the slow
progress in cleaning up the contaminated land in the Lower Lea Valley. Just
before he left he told an audience of building executives: 'We have not yet
touched this site and this is a huge problem. What if there is unexploded
ordnance from the war? We have to identify what is in the ground to get the
programme moving. Not a spoonful of dirt has been turned all summer.'

In addition the saga of the Olympic Stadium's post-2012 use - athletics?
football? - is proving divisive. There are also doubts about the organising
committee's ability to raise the £ 750m it needs from private sponsorship, and
UK Sport's chances of raising £ 100m to help fund British athletes' quest for
medals at the event. And a strategy to boost young people's participation in
sport - Coe's key pledge in his pitch to the IOC - has not arrived. Some things
are out of London 2012's control, such as the doubling in steel prices since it
won the Games.

The real possibility that work on key venues may not be done according to
timetable, requiring extra payments to contractors to hire more labour - as
happened in Athens before the 2004 event - is a private worry for the senior
people in the 2012 team. 'It's a high-risk project that has to be finished by a
fixed deadline,' said one last night.

In July 2005 luminaries of London's bid team, such as David Beckham and Steve
Redgrave, hugged each other in delight in Singapore when London won. Back home,
thousands watching on big screens in Trafalgar Square joined in the
celebrations. The mood is different now. Scepticism has replaced exhilaration.
London has begun experiencing its Olympics growing pains. With more than
five-and-a-half years to go before London's Olympics begin on 27 July 2012,
there is time to take decisive action and restore public confidence. But London
may be on the verge of setting its first Olympic record - overtaking Athens,
whose event cost £ 9bn, as the most expensive Games in history.


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 16 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                            November 12, 2006 Sunday

Sofa cad and a bitter aftertaste;
BLACK DOG

SECTION: FB 04; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 469 words


CADDISH MP James Gray, who faces deselection after dumping cancerstricken wife
Sarah for a mistress he 'entertained' on his Commons sofa, is bitter at the way
he has been treated compared to fellow Tory MP Greg Barker, who left his wife
and had a gay relationship.

'James thinks Barker got off lightly,' said a friend. 'He just doesn't get it.'
Tory whips panicked last week after rumours that CCTV film exists of Gray
performing 'sofa diplomacy'.

DIPLOMATS say they can tell when Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett under
stress. 'She gets through a bowlful pistachio nuts a day, but when things are
going wrong she eats them by the bucket,' said Dog's man in the Panama hat.

'It might be acceptable in a caravan park, not the FO.' bitter aftertaste

SCOTS Labour MP Ian Davidson is unimpressed by Ulster Secretary Peter Hain's
attempts to become Labour deputy leader. 'Never trust a man who has a tan in
winter,' urges Davidson. 'George Galloway, Robert Kilroy-Silk, Tommy Sheridan
and now Hain.' Not forgetting the biggest fake of them all: Blair.

DAVE CAMERON may hug hoodies, but he shows no such compassion to erring
backbenchers. Foreign affairs spokesman Andrew Turner was dumped after
describing Israel's attacks on Lebanon as 'Nazi tactics'. Culture spokesman Mark
Field got the chop not for his affair with Tory candidate Liz Truss, but for
allegedly 'bad mouthing' Dave.

Will Dave's Priti woman make it as an Essex girl?

TORY leaders in Witham, Essex, where Asian businessman Ali Miraj says he was
snubbed as Parliamentary candidate because of his race, are in a quandary.

Dave Cameron's allies hope they pick bubbly ex-Central Office aide Priti Patel,
who made the final shortlist, to disprove Miraj's claims. Don't bet on it. This
is Essex.

TREASURY Minister John Healey lectures the nation on prudence but has precious
little control of his own purse strings. He arrived at the Commons tea room till
with a tray loaded with grub only to discover he had no money.

He had to beg Labour colleagues to bail him out.

Osborne racks up Pounds 200

GEORGE OSBORNE'S attempt to save the planet by cycling to work has cost the
taxpayer dear. His Pounds 200 ten-gear boneshaker was pinched from the Commons
bike racks and the Shadow Chancellor claimed, and got, the cash back from the
House authorities.

CULTURE Secretary Tessa Jowell accused Tory MP Hugh Robertson of 'disgraceful
breach of trust' for revealing that she secretly told him no VAT would be paid
on the London 2012 Olympics. 'Tosh!' says the ex-Army officer. 'She told me in a
corridor. That's not a confidential meeting.' ANTI-EU peer Lord Pearson was
'fined' for accidentally shooting a hen pheasant at a partridge shoot in
Norfolk.

After the bird landed on the head of UKIP leader Nigel Farage, host Sir John
Whyte told Pearson to pay Pounds 250 to UKIP funds.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 16 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           November 12, 2006, Sunday

CAT KICKED OUT OF THE TORY PARTY

BYLINE: BY NIGEL NELSON

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 115 words

HIGHLIGHT: EXIT: Todd with Annabelle


A CAT has been expelled from the Tory Party - after being a member for two
years.

Black-haired moggie Todd was even eligible to vote for David Cameron during his
successful leadership bid.

His owner Annabelle Fuller cheekily signed him up with Tory youth wing
Conservative Future when she left the party to join the UK Independence Party.

Annabelle, 25, said: "I signed him up for £3 as Todd Fuller. Anyone can get into
the modern Tory Party because they never check."

Todd got junior membership which gave him full voting rights, even in Mr
Cameron's election.

But he was finally expelled when an ANONYMOUSE caller spilled the beans to his
local branch in Surrey.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.

                               14 of 16 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            November 10, 2006 Friday

Film & Music: Rock & Pop: Will these boys save pop music?: Boybands went
missing, feared dead, when indie stormed the charts. Can the old model be
resuscitated? Alexis Petridis reports from the pop laboratory

BYLINE: Alexis Petridis

SECTION: GUARDIAN FILM AND MUSIC PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1605 words


The atmosphere around the table in the Chelsea bar is bullish. The members of
365, perhaps buoyed by a day spent doing their first photoshoot for a gay
magazine ("Fingers crossed," says one of their number, Danny, "we'll be getting
those pink pounds!") are explaining their band's multifarious strengths with a
self-belief that would shame Kanye West. "We're trying to be innovative, I feel
like we're starting something fresh," says Brad, owner of an impressively
blown-out afro. Like the other members of 365, Brad is so implausibly handsome,
you feel like pulling a paper bag over your head the minute you see him.

"We're definitely pioneering a new school of . . . of everything," adds Kye. "We
proper believe in ourselves."

"We're not your run-of-the-mill group," agrees Andre. "We're going about it in a

totally different way."

"There's as much experimentation in our songs as you can get in pop music," says
Danny, proudly. "There's a live bongo kit on one track." He frowns, perhaps
realising that the presence of a live bongo kit on one track is unlikely to have
musical innovators such as Timbaland tossing and turning and reaching for the
Nytol. "We try to do as much crazy stuff as we possibly can," he qualifies,
"while making it as commercial as we possibly can."

Ever since Liam Gallagher first swaggered in front of a journalist's Dictaphone,
virtually every new band has felt obliged to announce themselves with this kind
of strutting confidence. The difference is that 365 aren't new indie upstarts
looking to stir up a bit of controversy on the NME letters page. They are a
boyband. Not even a boyband in the modern Busted/McFly
we-play-our-own-instruments-please-take-us-seriously sense, but a boyband in the
old-fashioned mid-90s sense of the word, with slick styling and dance routines
and a tidy line in ersatz R&B-influenced pop. They happily compare themselves to
the Spice Girls. "We wanna bring it back like they did, 10 years ago," says
Danny. "We want to be the pride of Britain."

The latter turns out to be a characteristic statement. After a while in their
company, you begin to suspect that someone, either within the band or their
organisation, has decided that patriotism is going to be 365's angle. The topic
of their Britishness comes up so often, it's occasionally less like interviewing
a boyband than a particularly youthful and well-groomed deputation from UKIP.
"If we come back with something really fresh," Danny continues, "we could bring
British pop back." Andre puffs their debut album on the strength that "it's all
British as well man, all British producers". "I've got a 13-year-old sister and
she listens to Beyonce and all the American rap," says Kye, "which is fine, but
it's not British."

Patriotic or otherwise, the boyband is a musical form widely believed to be
extinct. You do occasionally see boybands these days, but they're usually
chancing their arm at the X Factor auditions, looking no less anachronistic than
the grans gamely warbling We'll Meet Again. Discounting McFly and Busted, there
hasn't been a successful boyband launch in Britain since Blue, five years ago.

Unravelling the question of who killed the boyband is not unlike playing Cluedo.
Was it Simon Cowell, in the living room, with a succession of TV talent shows
that blew the gaff on how cynically they were manufactured, spoiling the magic
for a generation of pre-pubescents by showing them how the tricks were done? Was
it Busted, in the playground, with rounded-edge punk that acted as a
stepping-stone to heartier musical fare, pointing young ears in the direction of
the Arctic Monkeys, or encouraging them to transfer their shrill affections to
My Chemical Romance? Or was it Westlife, round at gran's, diverting their focus
from kids to the Mother's Day market and thus denuding the boyband's image of
any remaining scraps of cool?

The answer is probably all of the above. In the past five years, there have been
plenty of attempts to interest the nation's pre-teen female population in
boybands, but all of them have flopped spectacularly: who today remembers D-Side
or 888? When V, the most high-profile attempt of lot, went the same way (despite
backing from Busted and McFly's management, exposure on both those bands' tours
and songs by Xenomania, the songwriting and production team behind Girls Aloud's
peerless string of hits), major record labels were widely believed to have
washed their hands of the whole concept. "I think boybands were seen for a long
time as being an easy way to make a lot of money," says Peter Robinson of the
website Pop-

justice.com. "After V, it became obvious that it was easier to make money from
guitar bands."

But 365 arrive with financial muscle and might of EMI behind them. Both Sony and
Universal have rival boybands in development, while in the US, Lou Pearlman, the
rotund mastermind behind the Backstreet Boys and N'Sync, has proffered US5, a
quintet with an accompanying TV show called Big in America. Given the current
musical climate, the notion of major record labels putting vast sums of money
behind boybands seems both anachronis tic and bizarre. The thinking, according
to 365's manager, Emma French, is that indie and rock are about to reach
critical mass, that their current level of success is therefore unsustainable
and that kids will soon paddle back to the more familiar waters of manufactured
pop. "Pop's never going to go away. Young girls want guys that they can idolise,
that they can put on their wall, it's a big part of growing up. Different genres
come and go, but there's a feeling it has an eight-to-10-year cycle. Two years
ago,

I could see the signs. Indie bands were everywhere, it was having its moment,
but I could see the other side of that. We're going to go," she asserts, "back
to the days of good old British pop."

Sara Freeman, director of artist development at Innocent, the subsidiary of EMI
that signed 365, agrees. Launching a boyband is a big financial risk, she says -
"an indie band can make a video for 10 grand and it'll get shown across the
board, but a boyband can't do that, their video has to look crisp, or no one
would ever show it" - but seems certain that it will pay off. "Indie bands look
like they've just got out of bed, their hair looks dirty, they look like they
need a good bath, they're hard to look at," she says. "Boys with bad jumpers
looking angsty - kids don't want to see that. Their older brother looks like
that! And pop's the complete opposite. Made up to the eyeballs, wonderful
clothes." She sighs happily. "Lovely."

Not everyone shares her confidence. "I've been thinking recently whenever I see
a new pop group launch, that you might as well put money in a field and set fire
to it, rather than go through all the stress, the 18 months you spend trying to
refine it, only to be greeted with complete indifference from everyone," says
Peter Robinson. Popjustice.com has turned him into a kind of one-man
cheerleading squad for the unashamed joys of manufactured pop, but he claims
talk of a sea-change in public taste is premature. "I think that the idea of pop
music as being a particular type of music happened in the late 90s. It was the
era of Billie and B*witched and Steps and loads of terrible boybands that did
really well because pop was in vogue. People go, 'Why isn't pop coming back?'
Well, it is coming back - it just doesn't sound like that. People would rather
listen to the Kooks, a band that you won't get the piss taken out of you at
school for liking. A band like Razorlight or the Kooks, melodically, their songs
are as successful as a boyband song would have been 10 years ago."

Certainly, 365 et al arrive in a vastly altered landscape. In recent years, most
of the promotional channels for manufactured pop have vanished. Most radio
stations won't touch it. Smash Hits has closed, as has teen gossip magazine
Sneak. Top of the Pops has gone. Perhaps more importantly, the only way a
boyband is going to get their faces on telly on a Saturday morning is by
sampling Antony Worrall Thompson's spiced roast cod with bursting tomatoes;
CD:UK and Top of the Pops Saturday having long given way to Saturday Kitchen and
Saturday Cooks! To further add to their woes, Peter Robinson claims that even
boybands' traditional stronghold in the gay market is looking shaky: "I think if
people want to look at a good-looking boy, they'll just download some porn off
the internet these days."

Instead, the plan is to break 365 through constant touring of schools and
under-18s clubs, building up a fanbase big enough to chart their debut single,
in the hope that radio will be forced to take notice. "If you have a big enough
single first time around, if you create the momentum all on your own, then radio
might look at you," says Sara Freeman. "You have to give them a reason to
support you." Freeman's ambitions for the debut single are more modest than you
might expect: where once a pop act would have been deemed to fail if it's first
release didn't rocket to number one,

today, she would be satisfied with "the top 15 or the top 20. Then you've got
something to play with."

It remains to be seen whether the constant slogging around school assemblies and
the appeal to the nation's youth to Buy British will pay off. But back in the
Kings Road bar, Danny's thoughts are less occupied with the success or failure
of 365's debut single than with longer-term concerns. "We want longevity," he
says, bullish as ever. That invites the question of how long longevity is. "Oh,"
he chuckles, "it's at least five years, innit?"

365's single, One Touch, is released on November 13 on Innocent.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 16 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                November 9, 2006

Tories attacked over immigration proposals

LENGTH: 825 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Conservatives today said its proposals for a significant cut in
the number of economic migrants to Britain from outside the EU were not a swerve
to the right.


The Conservatives today said its proposals for a significant cut in the number
of economic migrants to Britain from outside the EU were not a swerve to the
right.

The Tories campaigned hard on immigration under Michael Howard in the 2005
election campaign but failed to defeat Labour.

Since then, David Cameron has been seeking to portray a more compassionate image
for the party and had almost taken the issue off the political agenda until
today.

The Conservatives said their ideas - presented in a 60-page policy paper by the
shadow home secretary, David Davis, and immigration spokesman Damien Green -
were both "tough and thoughtful".

Mr David and Mr Green advocate an annual limit on non-EU economic migrants,
designed to ensure that Britain's public services, infrastructure and housing
can cope with the numbers coming to settle in the UK.

The plans drop the idea that the annual limit should also apply to asylum
seekers, a policy criticised at the time of the election as unlawful.

But the home secretary, John Reid, today mocked the Tories for having a "long
period of silence" on the issue.

The Liberal Democrats, meanwhile, claimed the Tories were "doing the splits" on
immigration by talking tough to their membership while "trying to sound
reasonable" to help Mr Cameron's image.

Today's paper - which has been approved by Mr Cameron and is expected to form
the basis for policy in the manifesto for the next general election - argues
that the plans will maximise the economic benefit of migration to the UK by
limiting access to those with in-demand skills.

It does not estimate the annual limit which would be imposed on economic
migrants, but said it would be "significantly" lower than the current level of
about 200,000 a year.

Mr Davis and Mr Green acknowledge their proposals would not apply to workers
coming from new EU member states in eastern Europe, believed to have reached
600,000 since 2004 according to some estimates.

The Tory proposals bring the party closer to the government's thinking on
immigration than they have been in years.

Today Mr Davis admitted that his proposals for deciding eligibility for
admission would build on the government's plans for a points-based system giving
priority to would-be migrants with skills.

However, he said that his procedure for setting the annual limit on economic
migrants would be more sophisticated than Mr Reid's planned migration advisory
committee, as it would look not only at the economic impact of new arrivals, but
also the social consequences.

He also spoke about the importance of consensus on the issue. He: "We believe
that Britain would benefit if a consensus could develop about the best way to
make sure that we benefit from migration.

"We also believe that a socially responsible immigration policy needs proper
controls to build public confidence in the system. This is an attempt to help
build that consensus."

He dismissed suggestions that the plans might prove a vote-loser with core Tory
supporters who want immigration shut off altogether.

Under the plans, a two-stage process would first identify as eligible for
admission those - such as entrepreneurs and skilled professionals like doctors -
who are likely to contribute more to the economy than they take out.

In the second stage, the government would consult each year with bodies
including local authorities, housing providers and public services to set a
ceiling on the number to be admitted.

They would take into account the ability of the health and education services
and the public infrastructure to cope with the additional people, the
availability of housing, the likely environmental impact of population growth
and the potential effects on community cohesion.

The paper also repeats the Conservatives' call for a new unified border force,
empowered not only to control movements through the UK's ports and airports, but
also to track down and remove those who have overstayed their permission to
remain in Britain.

The UK Independence party claimed the Tory policy was inherently racist. The
party's leader, Nigel Farage, said: "The overall effect of such a policy is the
imposition of a colour bar which favours the 450 million white Europeans who
live in the EU.

"It also makes it increasing more difficult for those people hoping to come here
to work from Africa, Asia, the Caribbean and the Indian sub-continent."

However, Sir Andrew Green, of pressure group Migrationwatch UK, said: "This is
an intelligent and well-judged paper. The direction is right, but the beef must
follow."

A spokesman for the Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants said it was
important Mr Cameron recognised that "just talking tough on immigrants does not
help the immigration debate".

The spokesman went on: "A really compassionate approach to politics, which he
advocates, would start by recognising that most migrants come here to flee
poverty, human rights abuses and conflict and that migration can help make
poverty history."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               16 of 16 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 2, 2006 Thursday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 677 words


Much rejoicing at the Campaign Against Political Correctness following the
decision of Kirklees borough council to embrace common sense and reassert the
right to call a chair a chairman, irrespective of the individual's gender. The
civil-rights movement belonged to another century, but there are other important
battles and someone needs to fight them. One is the campaign's new crusade to
stop all kinds of "positive action" or discrimination to help minorities. After
all, how level do these people - the gays, the blacks, the women - want the
playing field to be? This new campaign is being run using the slogan Not in My
Name, which was also the rallying cry of the million-plus people who marched to
stop the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. Luckily this campaign seems equally just.

Worry for Mr Justice Wall, who, having been distressed by reporting in the Daily
Mail, floats the idea that only approved journalists should be admitted into
family courts. Not just because the idea of the judiciary deciding which
journalists deserve house room is bonkers but principally because he has now
incurred the wrath of Melanie Phillips. Yesterday she was deployed to give the
judge a bit of a slap, and there's probably more where that came from. His only
hope of escape is that Mel may be even more aggrieved about the BNP chairman,
Nick Griffin, who this week praised her as one of the few columnists capable of
"rational, independent thought". Poor girl. Poor them. She won't know who to
slap first.

There are now many people with reasons to dislike Dave Fotheringham-Cameron, and
apparently quite a few of them don't work for the Daily Telegraph. But can there
be any stronger indictment than the damage he has inflicted upon the humble
chocolate orange. According to Stephan Shakespeare of pollsters YouGov,
Cameron's decision to criticise WH Smith for over-promoting chocolate oranges
led to a dip not just in sales of the product but also in customer satisfaction.
In the Business magazine, Shakespeare says it is as if "Terry's Chocolate
Oranges no longer tasted as good after Dave had fingered them for fattening up
the nation's kids". Cameron already has a lock on the public mood. Now it's the
nation's taste buds.

Talking of Dave and the eco stuff; global warming. What's all that all about? Is
it just an irritant? Will it bring devastation to the planet? Having considered
the issue, the leaders of Ukip have unique but pertinent questions of their own.
Global warming, they ask in a breathless press release, is it "the new
witchcraft"? Don't all answer at once.

We fear that relations between London mayor Ken Livingstone and the Evening
Standard lurch from bad to worse. On Tuesday he initially defended the
employment of Abu Hamza's son by London Underground on the grounds that he might
also employ, without transference of any ill feeling, the children of the
paper's editor, Veronica Wadley. Things are so bad that on seeing yesterday's
headline on the confessions of a loyalist gunman - "My Plot To Murder Ken" - the
mayor thought it might have been an editorial.

Consternation in York, where council chiefs installed a shiny new set of street
lights nine months ago but forgot to equip them with electricity. The culprit is
being sought, not just so they can be unmasked but also so they can help
organise the 2012 Olympics.

Daniel Finkelstein, writing in yesterday's Times, uses Premiership football to
reassure us that going to war in Iraq was the right decision. Citing Chelsea and
Sheffield United, who played at the weekend, he says that the logical choice in
terms of making a quality decision would have been to plump for Chelsea because
they are the champions and Sheffield are bottom of the league. The fact that
Sheffield won would not degrade the quality of that decision. "You were right to
back Chelsea even though they lost," he says. In the real world Chelsea won 2-0,
which may or may not prove his thesis. But if the approach involves sending John
Motson to Baghdad for a while we'll rest just a little easier.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
