
                               1 of 25 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 27, 2006 Monday
                              Correction Appended

Media: Opinion: Media Monkey's Diary

SECTION: GUARDIAN MEDIA PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 692 words


Nothing gets BBC head of TV News Peter Horrocks's goat like hearing Sky News
plugged on the BBC. So Monkey can only wonder what Horrocks would have made of
Radio 5 Live's interview with Bruce Kent about the release of his friend Norman
Kember. Presenter: "So when did you learn Norman Kember was free?" Kent: "Oh,
I've known for about half an hour." "And how did you learn about it?" Kent: "Er,
it was on Sky News actually." "Oh, right." The anguish was palpable.

A bunch of bananas to Gary Duncan of the Times, who has been nominated for the
best breaking news story prize at the 2006 Business Journalist of the Year
awards, along with his colleagues Gerard Baker and Gabriel Rozenberg. But it
won't be news to Duncan, who is on the panel of judges deciding . . . the best
breaking news award.

Monkey's stat of the week: four. The number of national newspapers claiming to
be "newspaper of the year" after last week's British Press Awards.

Ever the shrinking violet, Richard Desmond is pictured just the three times in
OK! magazine's coverage of the Variety Club dinner and ball, among them a snap
of him with Ashley Cole. Perhaps the pair discussed the Arsenal star's legal
action against the Sun and the News of the World, which was so sympathetically
covered by Desmond's Daily Star: "Ashley Cole: I'm not a rear gunner".

The New York Times probably thought it was onto a good thing when it scooped an
exclusive interview with a victim of Hurricane Katrina. Sadly for the paper, the
woman was later arrested and charged with welfare fraud and grand larceny, with
prosecutors claiming she did not even live in Biloxi. Worse, it came less than a
week after the Times misidentified a man featured in the infamous "hooded
inmate" photograph from Abu Ghraib prison. Someone forgot to check up on the
fact-checkers.

And now, the launch of a new service - "Alandaq" - in which we trace the share
price of Sir Alan Sugar's Amstrad during the course of the second series of The
Apprentice. And it's not good news, Sir Alan, down 9.4% at Friday's close to
181p. Must do better!

When the England cricket team gained its first victory in India for 21 years,
BBC1's Six O'Clock News humiliatingly ran the wrong day's match report. But at
least it broadcast the right budget, unlike the good people of What Investment
magazine, who sent out a special email last Wednesday - with details of last
year's budget. Fascinating stuff, but 12 months out of date.

Financial Times editor Lionel Barber warned his staff to keep on their toes last
month, telling them in an email to "keep your contacts warm". You might have
thought that would include the paper's former editor, Richard Lambert, but it
was left to the BBC to break the news that the ex-FT man, a member of the Bank
of England's monetary policy committee, had been appointed director-general of
the CBI. The FT, meanwhile, was hot off the press with a story that there was
"no word if Richard Lambert will serve a second term" on the committee. Poor
show.

Conspiracy theories abound about Channel 4's Deal or No Deal. First it was
whether there was a pattern to the way the money was allocated to each box. Now
it is the weird symbols that host Noel Edmonds insists on drawing on the back of
his hand. Zodiac symbols, question marks and a heart have all featured so far.
Could it be some kind of Derren Brown-style mind trick? "We don't know why he's
doing it. He won't say," says a show spokesman.

The BBC might like to send Michael Stipe a few quid in return for its new
marketing slogan, "This is what we do". The REM frontman has been introducing
his band with exactly the same phrase for, oh, at least 10 years.

The lessons of the first successful libel action against comments made in a
chatroom are still to sink in, it seems. A day after a former Ukip parliamentary
candidate was awarded £10,000, a lively discussion on TV website Digital Spy
took an unfortunate turn when one contributor accused another poster of murder,
claimed the father of another one was a rapist, and then threatened to kill
herself. All of this in a discussion about TV soaps.

You can catch up with Monkey every day at MediaGuardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 31, 2006 Friday



CORRECTION: * In the Media Monkey column, page 4, Media, March 27, we said that
Gary Duncan of the Times was both a judge and a finalist in the Best Breaking
News/deadline story category of the 2006 Business Journalist of the Year Awards.
In fact, Mr Duncan stood down well before the judging process had begun, when he
realised that his own work had been entered by the Times.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 25 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 March 26, 2006

Business & Media: Media: The Networker: Long arm of the law puts an end to
name-calling on the internet

BYLINE: John Naughton

SECTION: OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 717 words


DISCUSSIONS IN online forums are notoriously vigorous, not to mention rude. For
a long time, the question of who was liable for defamatory statements in such
public arenas was an unexplored area - until a celebrated case in which a
British lecturer, Laurence Godfrey, felt that he had been libelled by a
contribution to an online discussion forum that had been forged in his name.

Godfrey complained to Demon Internet, the internet service provider (ISP) that
hosted the offending discussion group, but the company took no action. He then
sued Demon - and won. Initially, the ISP planned to appeal, but for reasons that
are still unclear, it eventually declined, establishing a precedent in law which
says that if an ISP does not investigate a complaint, it may be held liable for
content published on websites or discussions it hosts.

This has had a chilling impact on the web because it means that - in Europe at
least - it is relatively easy to shut down a website. All you need to do is to
get a lawyer to write to the ISP that hosts the site alleging defamation or
copyright infringement, and chances are the company will take it down without
much more than a cursory glance at the supposedly offending material.

In 2004, a group of activists conducted an experiment to see how much pressure
was needed for an ISP to take down a website hosting public-domain material.
They signed up with 10 providers and put online a work by Dutch author
Multatuli, who died more than 100 years ago. They said the work was in the
public domain and was written in 1871. They then set up a fake society claiming
to hold the copyright of the work. From a Hotmail address, they dispatched
complaints to all of the providers. Seven out of 10 complied and removed the
site, one within three hours. Only one ISP pointed out that the copyright
expired many years ago.

This week saw the setting of an equally momentous precedent in Britain. Michael
Keith-Smith, a Ukip activist who stood in Portsmouth North in the last General
Election, became the first person to win damages from an individual internet
user after being accused of being a 'sex offender' and 'racist blogger' on a
Yahoo! discussion site. It was also claimed that his wife was a prostitute.

Keith-Smith sued Tracy Williams, of Oldham, for comments posted after she joined
a right-wing online forum in 2002. The High Court judge decided that Williams
was 'particularly abusive' and 'her statements demonstrated that . . . she had
no intention of stopping her libellous and defamatory behaviour'. Accordingly,
he ordered her to pay £ 10,000 in damages, plus £ 7,200 costs.

This is a significant milestone for the net, because it illustrates the extent
to which original libertarian fantasies about it were misguided. In the early
days, it seemed that the network was completely beyond the control of the
established order.

'Governments of the industrial world, you weary giants of flesh and steel,'
wrote John Perry Barlow in his 1996 'Declaration of the Independence of
Cyberspace', 'I come from cyberspace, the new home of mind. On behalf of the
future, I ask you of the past to leave us alone. You are not welcome among us.
You have no sovereignty where we gather. Where there are wrongs, we will
identify them and address them by our means. We are forming our own social
contract. This governance will arise according to the conditions of our world,
not yours. Our world is different.'

What a difference a decade makes. Although the established order struggled
initially with the challenges posed by the net, in general it has made
astonishing strides in getting the unruly beast under control. That control will
never be perfect (witness the way the file-sharing genie escaped from the
bottle), but the long arm of the law has had little difficulty reaching into
cyberspace when it chooses to make the effort.

And although libertarians will no doubt protest, sometimes these intrusions may
have beneficial effects. Those of us who want the net to serve as the Speakers'
Corner of the 21st century have to accept that speakers must take responsibility
for what they say.

Even in the US, freedom of speech does not include the right to shout 'Fire!' in
a crowded theatre.

And in Britain it should not include the right to call somebody a sex offender
when he is not.


LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 25 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 24, 2006 Friday

G2: The question: What can you say in a chatroom?

BYLINE: Tim Dowling

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 304 words


Welcome to the NewsRoom at permachat.co.uk, the UK's premier online current
affairs forum!

>connecting to server . . .

Current Host: Chris2.

Current topic: Ukip politician Michael Keith-Smith has been awarded £10,000 in
libel damages after a college lecturer falsely branded him a "lard brain", then
a "Nazi" and a "racist bigot" on an internet message board during a discussion
about the Iraq war. Is it a sensible application of existing law, or should you
be able to say what you like in a chatroom? What do you think?

Bronco: sticks & stones will brake me bones.

anonimous-poster: shut it, u nazi.

capitalistpiglet: the message board in question only had 100 members. The size
of the award is ridiculous.

Host-Chris2: most cases like this are settled out of court, but I think the
ruling has huge implications for ISPs.

HOORAY-4-WAR: IF IT ENCOURAGES MORE RESPONSIBLE POSTING I AM IN FAVOUR.

anonimous-poster: u r a peadofile.

Bronco: LOL.

Host-Chris2: permachat's owners and moderators are not liable for remarks made
in its chatrooms, btw.

capitalistpiglet: actually I think they are

Pashmina has entered the NewsRoom

Pashmina: hi room.

Bronco: hi pash

Host-Chris2: Pashmina, what implications does the recent internet libel victory
hold for you?

capitalistpiglet: people use pseudonyms in chatrooms precisely so they can say
contentious things. That's the point.

Pashmina: non becos im always nice

anonimous-poster: fat lump.

Pashmina: is that u LadeezMan?

anonimous-poster: yes.

Host-Chris2: but in this case the defendant only moved to act when the abuse
worsened. Properly moderated chatrooms usually remove defamatory comment.

HOORAY-4-WAR: EVERYONE ON HERE IS AN IDIOT.

capitalistpiglet: I disapprove of what you say, but I'll defend to the death
your right to say it.

HOORAY-4-WAR: THANKS MORON.

>connection to server has been terminated. . .

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 25 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            March 23, 2006 Thursday

French riots

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 87 words


SIR - Television news has reported that the riots in France are against
employment laws designed to facilitate sacking workers (report, March 20).

The new laws are in fact to facilitate employing young people. In some areas,
youth unemployment is as high as 40 per cent. The reason is that it is just too
expensive to expand the workforce under the current, stifling legislation.

Paradoxically, economically illiterate youths are demonstrating against
liberalisation that is in their own interest.

Godfrey Bloom MEP (Ukip)

Brussels

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 25 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            March 23, 2006 Thursday

Warning to chatroom users after libel award for man labelled a Nazi: High court
orders lecturer to pay £10,000 damages: Lawyers say case confirms existing law
applies on net

BYLINE: Owen Gibson, Media correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 580 words


A political argument that erupted in a remote corner of cyberspace and descended
into vicious name-calling could lead to a spate of libel actions by contributors
to internet message boards, the man at the centre of the case claimed yesterday.

The dark side of the blogosphere was revealed by a libel action brought by
Michael Keith-Smith, a former Conservative party member who stood for Ukip in
Portsmouth North at the last election. He said he was moved to sue after a woman
with whom he was debating the merits of military action in Iraq began a campaign
of name-calling that started by describing him as "lard brain" and culminated in
falsely labelling him a "Nazi", a "racist bigot" and a "nonce".

Tracy Williams, a college lecturer from Oldham, was ordered by a high court
judge to pay £10,000 in damages, as well as Mr Keith-Smith's £7,200 costs, and
told never to repeat the allegations.

The case is one of the first of its kind between two private individuals to go
to court and, said lawyers, highlighted issues that would become more prominent
as internet usage continued to grow and blogging, social networking and
community sites became yet more popular.

Mr Keith-Smith told the Guardian that he took action after a debate about the
Iraq war in 2003 on a Yahoo! message board with about 100 members turned ugly.
"She was very pro-Bush. Initially, she called me lard brain and I wasn't
particularly concerned about that. Then she called me a Nazi," he said.

He has also taken action against a second poster, he said, with whom he claimed
to have settled for a sum "in the region of £30,000".

"They started saying I was on a sex offenders' list and that people shouldn't
let me near their children," said Mr Keith-Smith, who is also chairman of the
Conservative Democratic Alliance, which bills itself as "the leading voice of
the radical Tory right".

He resolved to take legal action after the pair accused his wife of being a
prostitute. But once his solicitors petitioned the court to find out the
identity of Ms Williams, who contributed to the forum under a pseudonym, the
abuse got worse.

"It's a matter of principle. I had no proof that anyone who read this took it
seriously. I just didn't see why she should be allowed to get away with it," he
said.

Legal experts said the case should be taken as a warning to the millions of
people in the UK debating contentious issues on message boards, in chatrooms and
on their own blogs that the laws of libel applied just as they would if the
comments were published in a leaflet or newsletter.

But despite claims from some that Judge Alistair MacDuff's high court decision
would hamper freedom of speech, most said the case merely provided confirmation
of the existing law.

"You can't say this is something that should just be allowed to carry on. I
don't think it is going to open any floodgates; it's a quite sensible
application of the law," said Caroline Keane, a partner at media law firm Wiggin
LLP.

But Mark Stephens, head of media law at Finer Stephens Innocent, said the case
should trigger a wider debate about whether the libel law was best suited to
deal with such cases. If a chatroom was self-moderating and had a limited
circulation, he questioned whether such cases should ever reach court.

Most such cases never reach court because most complaints tend to be to an ISP
or site owner, which would take down the defamatory content as soon as it was
notified and the person making the libellous allegations would back down.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 25 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            March 23, 2006, Thursday

They're all better off but would they vote for Brown?

BYLINE: Chris Holmes, Marion Jones, Louise Towers, Victoria Knowles

SECTION: FEATURES; Budget 2006; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2288 words


The Chancellor may have hoped to make a good impression, but the Times Budget
Jury thinks he should have done better

SMALL BUSINESS OWNER

John Brandler, 51: director of an art gallery, lives in a three-bedroom home in
Brentwood, Essex, with his partner, Linda Rodrigues, 63. He is a top-rate
taxpayer and derives most of his income from the gallery, but also has
investments in art and equities worth £ 480,000.

Ms Rodrigues, who is retired, owns their home outright. She says they would like
to move to a bigger, jointly owned house, but "doing so would mean handing over
£ 25,000 in stamp duty to the Chancellor".

The couple own two Volvos. Mr Brandler puts £ 3,000 a year into a private
pension and pays £ 2,000 a year in private health insurance.

He is concerned about "stealth taxes" and believes that the Government will try
to disguise these by offering sweeteners such as tax cuts on cigarettes or
alcohol.

He is equally worried about the impact of the new 4 per cent tax on selling art.

Previously a Labour supporter, Mr Brandler is disillusioned with Tony Blair and
unimpressed by David Cameron and is likely to vote Green at the next election.
Ms Rodrigues might vote for the Lib Dems. Impact: £ 354 a year better off

Verdict: "This Budget has been a non-event - Gordon Brown's done nothing for me,
nothing for the poor, nothing for hospitals. He hasn't even shown himself as a
good leader," Mr Brandler said.

He is similarly unimpressed with measures to clamp down on using trusts for
inheritance tax planning purposes. Both his parents are in their nineties, but
he would not urge them or anyone else to take steps to lessen the impact of
inheritance tax. "Measures can be legal when you put them in place and then
deemed illegal retrospectively."

PUBLIC SERVANT

Mary Pierre Harvey, 41: a property project manager for the London Borough of
Richmond upon Thames, earning £ 42,000 a year. She is married with five children
aged 5 to 16. Her husband is a chartered surveyor and the couple are paying off
the mortgage on their three-bedroom family home, although they do not expect to
own it outright until 2026.

They own two cars, a Toyota Previa and an MPV, and contribute £ 200 per year to
voluntary-aided schools.

She is particularly concerned about government investment in schools and would
like to see families receive more financial help with the costs of childcare and
mortgages.

Similarly, she is concerned about the rising costs of fuel because she needs a
large car to carry her children in. Whereas she previously spent between £ 45
and £ 47 on filling the tank, that cost has increased to £ 50, which influences
decisions on whether the family can afford to take holidays or spend money on
non-essential trips, such as driving the children to sporting activities.

She sees the pension crisis as an issue because "it would mean working longer
for less".

Impact: £ 386 a year better off

Verdict: "I'm relieved that I'm not worse off. I wasn't surprised that my car
tax has gone up but it would have been easier to understand if tax on champagne
hadn't been frozen.

"I jumped for joy at the extra spending on athletics and school science as that
is good for my children. But I really wanted to hear something to allay people's
fears on pensions and there was nothing so, as a public sector worker, I will
still be striking next Tuesday."

DISABLED WORKER

Jill Mahler, 67: a part-time charity worker who also works as a self-employed
access adviser. She has a total income of £ 13,000 from her earnings, her
disability allowance and a pension. She lives in Dorset, has three adult
children and owns her £ 189,000, two-bedroom home. She drives a Daewoo Kalos and
has £ 20,000 worth of investments. She is a non-smoker and drinks a moderate
amount of alcohol.

Mrs Mahler, a Liberal Democrat voter, is worried about the value of her pension
and believes that the recent domestic fuel price rises are "iniquitous".

Impact: £ 309 a year better off

Verdict: Although she appears to be one of the big winners, she remains deeply
sceptical about the Government's commitment to healthcare and, specifically,
wants to see more funds allocated to improving disabled children's access to
mainstream schools.

YOUNG PROFESSIONAL

Steven Wright, 23: a contract surveyor from Islington, North London, earns £
14,000 a year, lives with his parents and pays £ 100 a month rent. He has a £
2,000 investment and owns a £ 6,000 Ford Focus. He smokes three packets of
cigarettes a week and is also a social drinker, buying spirits most weekends.

He has voted Labour and UKIP in the past. He feels indifferently towards David
Cameron and recalls the economic hardship his family went through when his
father lost his job during the Thatcher years. He believes that he will be
unable to afford to buy his own home in London for at least two years.

Impact: £ 18 a year better off

Verdict: "I'm starting to save money to buy my own place and this will help me
to put aside a little extra. Fuel tax is too high and I'm pleased that it will
not increase for now. The stamp duty threshold will not help me, as I want to
buy in Central London, where prices are much higher."

TRADESMAN

Tony Barrett, 42: a self-employed carpenter and joiner, lives in Yateley,
Hampshire, and is a divorced father of three. His earnings vary between £ 40,000
and £ 55,000 a year. He is paying off a 22-year mortgage on a £ 250,000 house
and drives two vehicles, a Citroen C5 and a Ford Transit van. He has a frozen
personal pension plan and drinks about 15 units of alcohol a week.

A Conservative voter, he believes that the Thatcher Government sowed the seeds
for Labour's present successes. He is concerned about the increasingly heavy tax
burden.

Impact: £ 52 a year better off

Verdict: Not surprised because he believes that the Government is "playing it
safe". He was disappointed to learn that the drinks duty would leave him £ 28
worse off and said that the increase would backfire on the Government, as people
would choose to drink at home.

SINGLE MOTHER

Janice Huskins, 42: a divorced mother of two and a local authority advocacy
officer from West Yorkshire, earning £ 20,000 a year. She drives a Peugeot and
has a mortgage on her £ 170,000 three-bedroom semi. She contributes to a company
pension plan but is worried about pensions as she is "not keen on working to
65".

She is concerned about the continued failings of the Child Support Agency and
the lack of affordable, quality childcare. Her children are looked after by
their grandparents on weekdays. A Labour voter, Ms Huskins is likely to stay
with the party as she is satisfied with the working tax credit, but she would
like more help for working mothers.

Impact: £ 354 a year better off

Verdict: Ms Huskins feels that the Budget is relatively good news for her even
though the money she will gain does not amount to a great deal. "It's the
children's dinner money, and that's all, but I can't really complain."

RETIRED COUPLE

Bill, 75, and Barbara Jupp, 71: a retired car worker and dinner lady who have
two adult sons, own a £ 200,000 home in Oxford and drive a 2002 Rover 45. Their
combined annual income is £ 11,000, which includes pensions and interest from
bonds. They are non-smokers and non-drinkers.

They will continue to support Labour if it returns to its core values. They
believe that pensioners "have been cheated by governments since 1980" and would
like to see the link between pensions and earnings restored. Because of falling
interest rates their income has dropped by about £ 3,000 a year since 1997.

"It's as if we are being penalised for saving," Mr Jupp said.

Impact: £ 185 a year better off

Verdict: Once the impact of council tax and utility bill rises are taken into
account, they reckon they are significantly worse off than they were last year.

"I'm disgusted," Mr Jupp said. "Before Mr Blair came to power, he promised
pensioners would be able to share in the country's prosperity. This is just not
happening."

The Jupps would like to have seen measures that would lift all pensioners out of
poverty. They are unimpressed by the promise of free off-peak national bus
travel from 2008. "For pensioners, the future is now. Many will not be around in
two years," Mr Jupp said.

PROFESSIONAL COUPLE

James, 30, and Selina Shattock, 31: a financial practitioner and a part-time
customer service worker. They live in North Somerset, have two children and are
expecting their third in May.

She pays basic rate tax; he pays top rate. They have an offset mortgage on their
£ 350,000 home and a range of investments, including a portfolio of Isas. She
has a Ford Focus and he a Mercedes C180. They pay £ 2,000 a year nursery costs.

Mr Shattock invests in a company pension and Mrs Shattock in a private plan.
They are non-smokers and although she has been abstaining from alcohol during
her pregnancy, he drinks a bottle of wine and four pints of beer each week.

He votes Tory; she has voted Labour. Although they have increased their wealth
under Labour this is "due to plain hard graft and not government policies".

Impact: £ 196 a year better off

Verdict: "The extra money we are getting is fairly neutral and will soon be
spent on things such as council tax rises. At the moment we are having to pay
back child tax credit, which we were wrongly awarded. What we are given with one
hand seems to be taken away with the other.

"I am always pleased to see extra spending on schools but I would have liked to
see more money going into the NHS. I would also have liked to see bigger rises
in income tax bands and in the inheritance tax nil rate band."

NURSE

Hazel Dyer, 25: a senior staff nurse, single, earns £ 23,000 and lives in
Hammersmith, London, in a maisonette bought with a friend. Her pension payments
are £ 150 per month, she has £ 6,000 in cash mini-Isas and drives a small car.
She voted Labour at the last election, but her vote next time is "completely up
for grabs". She is worried about rises in domestic fuel prices.

Impact: £ 54 a year better off

Verdict: "More or less" what Ms Dyer was expecting from a Government that she
believed was unlikely to produce any big surprises. She received a modest income
tax cut of £ 38. Although she was pleased about a proposed increase in hospital
spending, she did not believe that the Government had any option.

She said: "With the recent news about possible overspending and budgets with
staff layoffs, they'd be very hard pushed to do anything else."

ENGINEER

Ben Wisbey, 21: a newly qualified engineer, earns £ 24,000 and rents a
one-bedroom flat in Berkshire for £ 400 a month. He lives with his girlfriend,
Amy. The couple own a Renault and Mr Wisbey pays £ 80 a month into a company
pension plan. He also attends college one day a week. Mr Wisbey is a non-smoker
and drinks about ten pints of beer a week.

He believes that he is in a better financial position than last year, but is
worried about the impact the pensions crisis will have on him. He has never
voted in a general election. He is not particularly impressed by David Cameron.

Impact: £ 46 a year better off

Verdict: "At least I'm not losing money. I don't mind paying extra for beer and
I think it's absolutely right that cigarette duty has gone up. I think the stamp
duty threshold should be much higher but I welcome the news that pensioners will
get free travel. It doesn't make me want to vote Labour though."

COMPANY DIRECTOR

Marcus Smith, 42: a director of the PR agency Weber Shandwick, lives with his
wife, Joanna, and three children in Wimbledon, southwest London. They have a
mortgage on their four-bedroom house, which is worth about £ 750,000. They have
a portfolio of shares.

Mr Smith pays top-rate tax, and his wife, a teaching assistant, the basic rate.
He has a company pension plan, is a non-smoker and drinks 20 units of alcohol a
week.

He pays for his children's education and the family has private health
insurance.

They own a Volvo 850 estate car.

A Labour voter, Mr Smith says he is pleased with improvements in key policy
areas, including health and education.

Impact: £ 194 a year better off

Verdict: "I think there were lots of areas where steps were taken in the right
direction and there was something for everyone, such as child benefit, plus the
raising of the thresholds at which inheritance tax and stamp duty bite, as well
steps aimed at reducing pollution. In particular, I'm impressed with measures to
encourage more children to consider science, like 3,000 new science teachers and
after-school science clubs. I know lots of businesses are looking for a greater
concentration on science."

SINGLE PENSIONER

Lindy Wiltshire, 67: a retired craftswoman who used to make cases for musical
instruments. She lives in Hampshire, is a divorced mother of three and is
studying art history at the University of Reading. Her annual income is £ 7,250,
she has a further £ 72,000 in investments and she lives in a three-bedroom semi.

She saved for her pension in Equitable Life, which she now regrets as her income
has halved.

She feels betrayed by Labour and says that her income has reduced sharply since
1997. She plans to vote Tory next time. She wants the inheritance tax threshold
raised and council tax abolished.

Impact: £ 155 a year better off

Verdict: "This money won't make any difference to me, I'm afraid. I'm very
disappointed there was nothing about council tax, which is outrageous and the
biggest item in my budget. The free bus travel is only good for fit pensioners,
not for those who are less mobile."

Interviews: Alexandra Frean, Alison Gibson, Michelle Cazzulino, Devika Bhat,
Daniel Kramb, Helen Pridham, Helen Monks

Photograph: Paul Rogers, Clara Molden, Sophie Laslett

Tax advice: Chris Holmes, Marion Jones, Louise Towers, Victoria Knowles, all of
Ernst & Young Props: Laura Ashley

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 25 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 March 22, 2006

Author threatens to sue blogger

LENGTH: 374 words



HIGHLIGHT: 5.45pm: A journalist and author is threatening to sue blogger Oliver
Kamm for libel over comments made on his website, in a move understood to mark
the first time such legal action has taken place. By Dominic Timms.


A journalist and author is threatening to sue blogger Oliver Kamm for libel over
comments made on his website, in a move understood to mark the first time such
legal action has taken place.

Neil Clark said he was planning to sue Kamm over comments made on his blog,
following Clark's unfavourable review of the blogger's book in the Daily
Telegraph.

The threat of legal action against a blogger - believed to be a first - comes
just a day after a former UK Independence party parliamentary candidate became
the first person to win a libel action over a posting in a British internet
chatroom, a move legal experts have warned could spark a string of similar
claims.

Clark, a well known anti-war writer, said he would launch a libel action "by the
end of this month" against Kamm, the neo-conservative author of
Anti-Totalitarianism, after he made allegedly defamatory comments about him
following a review of the book in the Daily Telegraph.

"I have been taking legal advice and intend to launch the libel action soon,
certainly by the end of this month," Clark said.

"As a blogger and a journalist I'm all for free speech but that doesn't mean
bloggers should get a carte blanche to write defamatory postings."

Clark said he was "very encouraged" by the high court's decision yesterday to
award 10,000 in damages to Keith Smith, the former UKIP candidate, over comments
written about him in an internet chatroom.

Legal experts warned that the decision could open a floodgate of similar
internet libel claims and said bloggers needed to be aware of the law.

"It doesn't matter if it's a newspaper, a letter, a chatroom or a blog, if it's
defamatory then whoever writes it could be open to libel action," said Louise
Prince, a solicitor with Harbottle & Lewis.

Kamm has already used his blog to defend his actions, saying he was neither
willing to remove the postings or apologise to Clark.

"Those bounds are not in my opinion broken by what I have written about Mr
Clark. If Mr Clark does proceed to legal action, I will defend myself to assert
that principle," he wrote recently.

To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone
020 7239 9857

If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for
publication".

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               8 of 25 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            March 22, 2006 Wednesday

Cheeky blogger

LENGTH: 89  words


A UKIP parliamentary candidate falsely accused on the internet of being a
"racist bigot" won £ 10,000 libel damages yesterday.

Michael Keith-Smith, 53, was also wrongly called a "sex offender" by Tracy
Williams after a row about the Iraq war.

Williams, of Oldam, Lancs, used aliases to make the false claims on her website
blog.

But Mr Keith-Smith, who stood in Portsmouth North at the last General Election,
won a court ruling in 2004 ordering website operator Yahoo! to disclose her
identity.

He then sued the blogger in the High Court.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 25 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           March 22, 2006, Wednesday

Chat room insults lead to internet libel victory

BYLINE: Adam Sherwin Media Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 419 words


A woman who posted false sexual allegations against a UKIP parliamentary
candidate on the internet has become the first person in a British chat room to
be sued successfully for libel.

Tracy Williams was ordered yesterday to pay £ 10,000 damages to Michael Keith
Smith and issued with a High Court restraining order banning her from abusing
him further on any website.

Mr Keith Smith, 53, who fought the Portsmouth North seat last year, was falsely
accused of being a sex offender and "racist bigot" in an internet chatroom. He
sued Williams, claiming that she had used an alias to make serious and false
accusations against him on a group discussion website in April 2004.

In a potentially significant ruling for public figures fighting libellous
websites, Judge Alistair MacDuff, QC, said: "The published statements, upon
which reliance is placed, are clearly seriously defamatory. These statements
have been made to a restricted audience and it is likely that few people have
read these statements. But they were available to the whole world, or at least
to the part of the world that has access to a computer and knows how to go on
the internet."

Mr Keith Smith, a chartered surveyor and former Conservative Party member from
Fareham, Hampshire, said that Williams had attacked him in the chat room for
right-wing political discussion after they had disagreed in a group debate about
the Iraq war.

The abuse started after he signed up in 2003 to a discussion site that had 100
or so members and which was hosted by Yahoo!. Although he used the name
MikeUKPO53EX, the other debaters logging into the chatroom could discover his
profile by clicking on that user name.

He told the judge: "The whole thing got out of hand when the Iraq war started. I
took the view that the war was wrong and she was very strongly in favour of Mr
Bush and the war."

In 2003 Williams, using the pseudonym "Gos" or "Gosforth", began her campaign of
abuse against Mr Keith Smith, calling him a "lard brain", a "nonce", a Nazi, and
accusing him of sexually harassing a female co-worker. When he sought to
discover her identity and begin court proceedings she continued the abuse,
calling him a "racist bigot" and "maggot".

The judge said: "She was cocking a snook at the court and solicitors and she had
no intention of stopping her libellous and defamatory behaviour." She indicated
that she would set up a new website and Mr Keith Smith was concerned that she
would repeat the statements.

www.timesonline.co.uk/law Legal comment news and analysis

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 25 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             March 21, 2006 Tuesday

Danger from Europe

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 95 words


SIR - Daniel Hannan was a little mean-spirited when he omitted to mention the UK
Independence Party alongside Open Europe (Comment, March 20). If you want to
know what we stand for, read our name - it is not so very different from Mr
Hannan's position, except he finds it possible to remain in a party that
supports ever-closer union.

And time is shorter even than he says. When the Lab-Lib-Con introduce state
funding of political parties, little UKIP will get no money, as we have not yet
any Westminster MPs. How very European.

Andrew Smith

Chairman, UKIP

Epping Forest, Essex

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 25 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 21, 2006 Tuesday

Reply Letters and emails: Just the job, garcon

BYLINE: Godfrey Bloom MEP

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 158 words


Nearly all radio and television news has reported riots in France against
employment laws designed to facilitate sacking workers (De Villepin faces strike
threat after weekend of riots, March 20). Nothing could be further from the
truth.

The new laws are to facilitate the employment of young people. Youth
unemployment in France is chronic, up to 40% in certain areas. The reason is
that it is just too expensive and impossible to expand the workforce under
current stifling legislation.

Visitors to France will notice that in many restaurants tables are removed or
cordoned off to enable family members only to service those that remain.
Proprietors tell me that employing youngsters at the moment is not an option.

Paradoxically, it is the economically illiterate youth demonstrating against
this liberalisation that is in their own interest. Manipulated as always in
France by the usual suspects.

Godfrey Bloom MEP

UKIP, Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 25 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                             March 19, 2006 Sunday
                                 First Edition

Watchdog: 'Blair was morally obliged to come clean over loans'

BYLINE: By Francis Elliott WHITEHALL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 297 words


Sam Younger doesn't mince his words when asked if Tony Blair should open
Labour's books and reveal its previous secret loans. The Prime Minister was
"morally" obliged to come clean, the party funding watchdog told The Independent
on Sunday.

Revelations that Mr Blair had nominated four wealthy businessmen for peerages
weeks after they had secretly lent his party millions of pounds had "aroused the
public's suspicions", says Mr Younger. While welcoming the three main parties'
agreement to declare loans in future, he called on them to open the books on
past arrangements.

"If it's right to bring it in for the future then it's right morally that it
should apply to the past. The more transparent the parties can be, the better,"
he says.

The Electoral Commission chairman suggests that political donations will have to
be capped at only pounds 5,000 to counter fears of corruption. But Mr Younger
also warns that limiting donations will mean tax-funded politics, and that will
almost certainly see groups such as the BNP receiving handouts.

"Wherever you set the eligibility you can't control the sort of organisations
money is going to go to," he points out. "If you did it according to votes in
the last election and set the minimum at 100,000, Ukip, the Greens and the BNP
all get in."

The watchdog is pressing for other measures to reduce parties' dependence on
high-rolling donors, including tax relief on small donations and free mail-shots
for local council elections.

The commission also wants a new fines system to punish parties that are slow to
declare gifts. "There is no sanction between a rap on the knuckles and a
criminal prosecution. You get late reporting consistently and you bring the
whole thing into disrepute. We would like to see a significant change in
penalties."

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Younger: cap donations at pounds 5,000

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 25 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                             March 12, 2006 Sunday

BYLINE: BLACK DOG

SECTION: FB 04; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 451 words


Profumo hunted reds from the beds

JOHN PROFUMO took another dark secret to his grave.

He told BBC documentary maker Michael Cockerell how, as a young Tory apparatchik
after the Second World War, he recruited an army of bedridden hospital patients
to listen out for communist infiltrators on BBC radio.

'We would read the Radio Times each week to spot Left-wingers,' said Profumo.

A DISTINGUISHED female visitor to No10 was shocked when she went to the ladies.
Stuck to the door with four gobbets of Blu Tack was a scruffy piece of paper
stating: 'Have you remembered to flush the loo? Don't forget to wash your
hands.'

You'd need to after shaking hands with Tony.

GORDON BROWN invites some rum coves to Downing Street these days. A seminar
organised by the Chancellor heard Rightwing economist David Newbery of Cambridge
University call for Beechingstyle rail cuts and describe the Hatfield train
crash, in which four died, as a 'blip' that should be 'ignored'.

BBC head of news Helen Boaden has banned leaving parties after a spate of
riotous booze-ups prompted by the corporation's latest round of staff cuts.

'There are so many parties going on that the bulletins are being disrupted,'
complained one executive. Really?

NEW Labour 'polling king' Philip Gould is living like a real monarch after
buying a Pounds 3million mansion overlooking Regent's Park. It's small change
for millionairess wife Gail Rebuck, boss of Random House, publishers of the
bestselling Da Vinci Code.

Has Hoon fallen head over heels?

WHAT is going on between Commons Leader Geoff 'Buff' Hoon and his kittenheeled
Tory Shadow, Theresa May, left?

Colleagues on both sides say sparks fly when their eyes meet across the despatch
box.

And they also describe 'warm' relations behind the scenes.

TESSA JOWELL'S overnight conversion from grim-faced, baggyeyeddefender of
husband David Mills to radiant, 20-years-younger single woman free of her other
half brought to mind the widow whose hair 'turned quite gold from grief' in
Oscar Wilde's The Importance Of Being Earnest.

'Tis pity he's a bore ...

POTTY Euro MP Godfrey Bloom, who once said only a fool would employ a woman 'of
childbearing age', has confessed he used to visit 'whorehouses' in Hong Kong.

'Most girls do it because they want to,' said the UKIP man. 'The decent thing
was to brass up the girl who would pretend you were a bit of a tiger and not a
drunken, repressed public schoolboy.'

MARK PENN, Blair's new US public relations guru, carried out a survey on Blair
and Brown which asked 'If you had an 18-year-old daughter, which one would you
rather they brought home?' And 'If your car broke down with a puncture, which
one would be more likely to stop to help?' Brown won on both counts.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 25 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             March 12, 2006, Sunday

MEP'S JIBEAT PROSTITUTES

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 40 words


EURO MP Godfrey Bloom has caused outrage after claiming most prostitutes do it
"because they want to".

The Yorkshire UKIP MEP also said he had visited brothels in Hong Kong but had
never had sex at one due to drinking too much beer.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.

                               15 of 25 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 12, 2006

Bloom steps from behind the fridge to defend prostitutes

BYLINE: Roland White

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 99 words


Plain-speaking MEP Godfrey Bloom is back on championship form after a lean
patch.

Godders, the UKIP member for Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire, made a name for
himself in Strasbourg by complaining that women "didn't clean behind the fridge
enough" but still managed to get a seat on the gender equality committee.

Now he has leapt to the defence of vice girls, saying that plans to outlaw
prostitution throughout Europe are "unworldly".

Writing in a Brussels magazine called The Sprout, Bloom attacks supporters of an
outright ban as "heavily tufted lesbian Nordics". And as for their fridges ...

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 25 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             March 12, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Bloom with a view;
LEADER CROSS BENCHER

SECTION: LEADER; 27

LENGTH: 108  words


YORKSHIRE MEP Godfrey Bloom has made a fresh bid to win the female vote - after
famously joking that women did not clean behind the fridge enough.

Now the Ukip MEP has confessed to visiting brothels and said that, far from
being exploited, most prostitutes "do it because they want to".

He told Brussels-based Sprout magazine that, as a businessman in Hong Kong, he
visited whorehouses as if going for a curry after a post-work drink - but he
insisted the amount of beer he'd usually drunk meant visits were never
consummated.

Mr Bloom, voters might be interested to know, sits on the European Parliament's
women's rights and gender equality committee.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 25 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            March 11, 2006 Saturday

England will never have a parliament

BYLINE: Vicki Woods

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 941 words


I got toothpaste all over the bathroom yesterday when a self-satisfied Scot and
a noisy Welshman starting arguing about England and the English, as if they both
had a right to. I'm normally quite tidy about cleaning my teeth, but I was doing
a brain exercise.

I'd been attempting to keep mentally fit by playing tricks on my grey cells, as
advised by all the papers last week. Did everybody see that piece about how to
give the brain a workout? I read it and forgot most of it instantly, which just
goes to show you.

The only bits I retained are stuck there for life. 1) Provide an oily fish
requirement for dinner twice a week (memo to self: buy sardines). 2) Clean your
teeth with the wrong hand, which is what I was doing. (Additional memo: not
while listening to Today.)

Anyway, there was Charlie Falconer, being pressed by John Humphrys about the
need for an English parliament. I wasn't sure I did need an English parliament,
but Humphrys can get amazingly over-excited about the least thing over
breakfast.

"Scotland has its own parliament,'' he said briskly. "And Wales has its own
assembly. But the Lord Chancellor will be saying today that England will not
have its own parliament! Not today, not tomorrow, and not for any kind of future
we can see!'' He cued in Falconer with "So, why not, eh?''

Charlie Falconer, who knows as well as Humphrys does that this is a fake
argument about something that is never going to happen, played his smoothest and
straightest bat. He agreed that it might not seem quite fair to Little
Englanders (he didn't call them that, but he didn't need to) that the West
Lothian question will never be answered. (He didn't call it "the West Lothian
question'', either, but we all know what it is by now, and he knows we know.)

Pausing only to assure the nation that Tony's Education Bill would pass smoothly
and happily through the House next week, he said: "It certainly remains a
possibility, but only a possibility, that a Bill could go through with Scottish
and Welsh MPs and only a minority of English MPs supporting it.''

Humphrys did his excitable best ("But that's not just a democratic absurdity!
It's a democratic anomaly!'') but old smoothy-chops rumbled on: "It is a clear
anomaly, yes. But the right question to ask yourself is: how do you deal with
that anomaly in a way that most promotes the Union?'' and then began to talk
about Scotland and Wales in a way that made this Englishwoman, for one, put her
toothbrush firmly back in the correct hand, for fear of swallowing it in rage.
The Scots had passionately demanded their own parliament. That's why they got
one. The Welsh had demanded theirs. In England, there is no such demand.

There is some demand, in fact. Not from any of the main political parties
(though I think the Scot Nats are happy to burble on about an English parliament
because they know it annoys Tony). There is a party called the English
Democrats, which would like an English parliament, but I haven't looked them up
because I veer away from anything that sounds creepily UKIP-like, in case it
involves Joan Collins. I did look up a website called the Campaign for an
English Parliament (CEP), which posts opinion polls and articles evidencing such
demand. But it's not exactly mainstream.

An English parliament is never going to happen. Falconer's argument yesterday
with Humphrys was completely artificial. There will never be an English
parliament because the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister has already set up
the English regional assemblies (like the Welsh Assembly, only much richer) in
all the English regions of the European Union.

I know, at the sound of the words European Union, everyone's head hits chest.
Mine does, too, and that's the problem. I hear bored, muted voices saying:
Surely that's wrong? I thought they'd been done away with, the regional
assemblies? I thought Prescott tried to get the North-East to have one and
everyone in the North-East said, Oh, get away with you, we don't want one, waste
of money - naff off.

Well, he set the things up anyway. Mine is called SEERA, the South-East English
Regional Assembly. It has a little sister called SEEDA, the South-East England
Development Agency. (In fact, the little sister is called Seeda Ltd). SEERA,
which is obviously what I must soon learn to call "my region'' (after decades of
calling it Hampshire or Oxon or Kent), is based in Guildford. It has a vast and
"informative'' website, which is a real headache to read, though I try to look
at it occasionally in order to keep mentally fit, on the toothbrushing with the
wrong hand principle. SEERA is what Humphrys would call "a democratic anomaly'',
in that its 112 assembly members are not elected by me, or by anyone else I ever
met. They're appointed by local government, and most of them seem to be
councillors already.

They have a children's website, called South-East England and Me (SEEME), which
is a lot easier for grown-ups to understand, though I can't imagine a child I
know enjoying it. SEEME tells me that the 112 members are supported by "a small
team of staff''. Having looked up the "small team'', I find 29 people, plus
assorted PAs and support, all drawing salaries.

One of them is called Anke Siedler. Her bio reads: "Fluent in German, French and
English, Anke's role will be to represent the South-East's interests in Brussels
by gathering intelligence, lobbying and networking. She divides her time between
Guildford and South-East England House in Brussels.'' South-East England House?
In Brussels? Who's paying for that, apart from me?

Well, you, obviously. This is the future for England, folks. Forget the English
parliament.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 25 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            March 8, 2006 Wednesday

Spy

BYLINE: Jonathan Isaby

SECTION: FEATURES; Spy; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 608 words


ANYONE FOR UKIP?

If you're missing the excitement of the Tory and Lib Dem leadership contests -
and expecting Tony Blair to hang on for a while yet - then rest assured, there's
still one political crown up for grabs this year.

The four-year term of UK Independence Party leader Roger Knapman will soon come
to an end and a ballot of the party's 20,000 members will choose his successor
this summer.

"It will be the first scheduled and orderly handover of power in UKIP history,''
says one insider. "The jostling for position will begin in earnest in May, with
the winner due to be announced at the conference in October.''

Potential contenders are likely to include current chairman David
Campbell-Bannerman - great-nephew of the Liberal prime minister Henry - and
leading MEP Nigel Farage.

HEAD START

Last September, I revealed how Elton John's latest narcissistic endeavour was to
produce an American sitcom about a - presumably not unfamiliar - ageing gay
British rock star.

And he had selected Little Britain actor Anthony Head (left) to play the role, I
can report that Elt and Ant have been preparing for the show, which is due to
start filming in Los Angeles later this month. "Elton and I have already sung
two songs together,'' Head told Spy in a bizarre yet fortuitous encounter in an
Italian restaurant in Cyprus on Monday night.

"I'm just here for three days' rest with my wife before going out to the States
to film the pilot.''

CORNWALL TOO

Spy reported last week that weathergirl Siân Lloyd is campaigning to get St
David's Day recognised as a bank holiday in Wales.

Now I learn of a rather more obscure campaign, being championed by her Celtic
cousins in Cornwall: to make March 5 a bank holiday in the county in order to
celebrate the feast of St Piran, the little-known patron saint of Cornwall.

Dan Rogerson, the Lib Dem MP for North Cornwall, has tabled a parliamentary
motion insisting that it would be "a valuable opportunity for the people of
Cornwall to celebrate their unique heritage''.

"Other countries in Europe have local festivals, so I see no reason why we
shouldn't,'' he tells me. "Festivities for St Piran's Day are growing year by
year and having it as a bank holiday would be a fantastic way of celebrating all
that is great about Cornwall.''

uri's pledge

After he asked the nation to heal David Beckham's foot before the last World
Cup, spoon-bending Uri Geller is convinced he can do the same for Michael Owen.

"I believe I can help Owen with his foot injury by sending positive energy to
him,'' the TV psychic told me at the launch of his Crystal Pendulum Dowsing Kit
on Monday night.

"If only Sven would let me into the changing room for two minutes, I know I
could make a difference. I could inspire them to play well and have absolutely
no reason to believe that David Beckham will not lift the World Cup.''

I'm not holding my breath.

BRUCE BLOWS IT

Names of glamorous young women are linked to Bruce Willis as often as he pumps
iron at the gym, and one name to be consistently whispered in the same breath as
his is that of supermodel Petra Nemcova (left).

Some have suggested she has been secretly dating Willis since he asked for her
number at a charity benefit before Christmas.

However, I can reveal that Nemcova not only spurned Willis's romantic advances,
but also turned down a part in his latest film, Perfect Stranger.

"Petra was tempted but she said she didn't want to do any acting until she's
properly trained,'' I'm told.

"She's overloaded with projects at the moment anyway. Bruce was pretty
disappointed: to be rejected once was bad enough, but the second time round
really stung,'' adds my source.

Celia Walden is away

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 25 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              March 6, 2006 Monday

Reply Letters and emails: Tories have little influence in Europe

BYLINE: Roger Knapman MEP

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 240 words


Caroline Jackson really has been spending too much time in Brussels if she
thinks that the Conservative party really has influence in the European
parliament and more specifically within the federalist EPP/ED group (Backwards
not forwards, March 2). She trumpets that her Tory colleague Malcolm Harbour was
responsible for "victory on the services directive" with his EPP friends. The
deal that Mr Harbour managed was one of capitulation to the Socialist group, as
Jackson knows very well. Indeed on most of the key votes, almost every single
Tory MEP voted against the agreement.

The Tories, if they are about anything in the European parliament, must surely
be about increasing British influence. This is most likely to be achieved
through working with the more free-marketeering and Atlanticist east European
counties against the sclerotic Franco-German duality. Immediately after this
vote, the leaders of the east European centre-right parties wrote a letter
describing Mr Harbour's deal as "unacceptable". If that is the influence that
Jackson trumpets so loudly, she and other federalist members of the Tories can
keep it. Those in her party who wish to defend Britain's interests have another
option: they can join the UK Independence party and ensure that decisions of
such importance are made where they should be, in Britain, rather than among
those who do not have our interests at heart.

Roger Knapman MEP

Leader, UK Independence party

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 25 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              March 5, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Briefly. . .

SECTION: LETTERS; 28

LENGTH: 54  words


THE UK Independence Party has the potential to be the 'right of centre' party.
For too long it has tried to be left, right and centre all at the same time. It
may be what finally launches it from the fourth party to a genuine challenger.

Imagine - a centre-right party which is not the Tories. Ah, bliss.

Les Arnott, Sheffield

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 25 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 4, 2006 Saturday

Saturday: CORRECTIONS & CLARIFICATIONS

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 364 words


populating article 36 populating article Edition stars populating article XX
populating article satLeaderOne populating article Corrections populating
article satLeaderTwo populating article COUNTRYDIARY populating article
satendpiece populating article archive

In a Diary item, February 23, page 31, we said Julian Morris of the
International Policy Network had agreed to advise Ukip on the environment. Mr
Morris would like to make clear that he has not been contacted by Ukip
requesting his advice and he has not agreed to advise it on environmental
policy.

An advertisement in yesterday's paper for a Guardian debate on freedom of
expression gave the wrong information for obtaining tickets. To reserve a place
at the debate, to be held at City University, London, on March 14, please email
your name, phone number and email address to caroline.furneaux@ guardian.co.uk
with "Guardian debate" in the subject box, stating how many tickets you require.

A review of Jeffrey Archer's new novel in today's preprinted Review section (The
wrong impression, page 17) suggests that he owns a Van Gogh self-portrait
mentioned in the book. That is not in fact the case.

Decca Aitkenhead's review of Jonathan Maitland's book How to Survive Your
Mother, erroneously trailed in the contents list of this week's Review, will
appear in next week's issue.

We failed to use all the butter listed in the ingredients for a recipe for
sugar-crusted pear turnovers (Treat of the week, Weekend, February 18, page
143). The remaining cold, cubed butter should be added to the pastry dough after
the milk and egg are whisked in.

Henry VIII's wives became muddled in the Quick crossword G2 page 36 March 2.
Anne of Cleves was Henry's fourth wife (not his fifth) while Catherine Howard
was his fifth wife (not his fourth).

It is the policy of the Guardian to correct significant errors as soon as
possible. Please quote the date and page number. Readers may contact the office
of the readers' editor bytelephoning +44 (0)20 7713 4736 between 11am and 5pm UK
time Monday to Friday excluding public holidays. Send mail to The Readers'
Editor, at the address opposite.

Fax +44 (0)20 7239 9997. Email: reader@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 25 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            March 2, 2006, Thursday

Poll position

BYLINE: Martin Waller

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 100 words


THERE is a potential aldermanic election coming up in the City, in the Ward of
Lime Street.

It seems the incumbent, John Stuttard, has opted to stand a year earlier than he
has to. Stuttard is expected to be the next Lord Mayor, which means if he
doesn't get the job then UKIP is favourite for the next general election.
Stuttard has, sensibly, decided to get the election out of the way before his
year in office. So far, he is standing unopposed. But what is the betting one of
the Awkward Brigade at Guildhall, of whom there is never a shortage, throws
their hat into the ring? You have until March 21.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 25 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            March 1, 2006 Wednesday

Politics: Cameron's statement of beliefs stresses social responsibility:
Pamphlet backs individual action over state control: Tory leader says his party
has to improve its image

BYLINE: Julian Glover, Political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 625 words


David Cameron yesterday insisted that clear blue water remained between Labour
and the Conservatives as he launched a statement of beliefs committing his party
to reducing poverty, helping the developing world and acting on climate change.

Mr Cameron emphasised that the document, Built to Last, backed individual action
over state control. "We believe in sharing responsibility; that government
doesn't have all the answers; that we're all in this together - individuals,
families, business, voluntary organisations and social enterprises, business and
government. This is a real battle, with a real prize at stake; the chance to
tackle those long-term challenges that are so vital for our future. There's a
clear choice between our approach and Gordon Brown's." He was also adamant that
the modernisation of the Conservative party did not mean caving in to Labour's
agenda.

Although Mr Cameron argued that many "enduring" Tory values were right for the
time and for the challenges Britain faces, he insisted the party had to work to
improve its image and reputation. "We know we have to change," he said. "I stood
for the leadership because I'm fed up with hearing that this party is out of
touch, backward-looking and lacks compassion. That's not the Conservative party
I'm leading.

"This party voted for change. Now we have to show what that change means. Not
just what we're changing from but what we're changing to. We have to show that
the change is real, that it means something, that it's built to last. That's why
today I'm setting out, in this statement of aims and values, what we stand for
and what we're fighting for."

The document will be put to a ballot of party members before the autumn party
conference, in an attempt to demonstrate that the Conservative grassroots back
Mr Cameron's approach. The signs were that Mr Cameron would win the vote easily,
despite concern that the document's lack of controversy could cause many of the
party's 250,000 members to abstain.

"I support what Cameron is doing, it's going down very well with ex-Conservative
voters in my constituency," said one backbench MP on the party's right. "I'm
impressed with it, it's punchy," said another. "There is an element of a
marketing exercise about it but my reading is that the right is onside."
Although he said there there would be "some refuseniks", he expected party
members in his constituency to give the document overwhelming support.

However, Lord Tebbit, the former home secretary, told the BBC before the launch
of the document: "I think every one of those things could be listed in a Labour
manifesto. It is going to be difficult, until it is fleshed out, to find any
differences with our political opponents."

Roger Knapman, the leader of the UK Independence party and a former Tory MP,
warned that the vote would turn the Conservatives into "blue Labour". "He (Mr
Cameron) appears to be cloning New Labour just as New Labour goes out of style:
a fundamental error for someone with his PR background."

That was echoed by a survey yesterday of 50 Conservative constituency chairs for
More4 News, which found a quarter believed Mr Cameron was taking the party too
close to New Labour. However, the Tory leader had the support of 60% of those
surveyed for his opposition to grammar schools and 84% for his decision not to
make tax cuts a priority.

The document brings together many of the themes set out by Mr Cameron during his
bid for the party leadership last year, including his claim that "there is such
a thing as society, it just isn't the same as the state".

It commits the party to public spending and economic stability ahead of tax
cuts, a cross-party consensus on climate change, and the "moral" case for
fighting poverty.

guardian.co.uk/politics >

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 25 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            March 1, 2006 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Tory right resists Cameron bid to take centreground;
POLITICS

BYLINE: By Colin Brown Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 601 words


Right wing Tory MPs have dismissed David Cameron's attempt to recapture the
centre ground from Tony Blair with a new vision of modern "caring"
Conservativism, saying the exercise was not the Tory leader's "clause four".

Just as Mr Blair succeeded in making an historic break with Labour's socialist
past by ditching clause four of the party constitution on state ownership, Mr
Cameron is seeking a break with the Tory past by asking the entire membership to
endorse his vision in a ballot.

But one senior member of the Cornerstone group which backed Mr Cameron for the
leadership said: "This is not Cameron's clause four. We haven't changed. We are
confident that if we get back into power, we will be a low-tax government, tough
on crime and immigration."

Mr Cameron has set his sights on replacing Mr Blair and defeating Gordon Brown
for the votes of middle England when the two go head-to-head at the next
election by issuing a "statement of values" putting economic stability before
tax cuts, making poverty history, and disowning Lady Thatcher's words by saying
"there is such a thing as society".

A vote for the document, which is expected to be overwhelming, will also give
the green light to the proposal for positive action in the selection of women
and ethnic minority candidates through a so-called A list of approved people to
fight winnable seats.

"The battle for the hearts and minds of the British people has begun," Mr
Cameron told a rally in London. "There will be a clear choice between our
approach and Gordon Brown's.

"The party voted for change. Now we have to show what change means. Not just
what we're changing from but what we're changing to."

The UK Independence Party (Ukip) leader, Roger Knapman, said Mr Cameron was
asking Tory members to vote for the transformation of the party into "blue
Labour".

A number of right wingers are worried about the direction of Mr Cameron's
leadership, but are reluctant to speak publicly, believing that if Mr Cameron
can ape Mr Blair, they may be able to regain power. Eric Forth, a former
minister, raised objections to Mr Cameron's declaration that there would be no
more grammar schools at a private meeting but was booed by fellow Tory MPs.

Mr Cameron's strategy for an end to selection in schools at the age of 11 will
be challenged by Edward Leigh, the chairman of the Cornerstone group and Tory
chair of the public accounts committee. Mr Leigh will propose that schools be
given the freedom to introduce selection.

Some Tory leadership sources said they had wanted a right-wing backlash from the
Tory hardliners to show they were changing. Last night one senior party official
said: "This was never intended as our clause four moment. But we are showing
that this is not just about the leadership changing. If the party votes for this
agenda, it will show that the party has changed."

Lord Tebbit has dismissed Mr Cameron's new initiative as "clever marketing",
saying it was difficult to see any differences with Labour. But Stuart Wheeler,
another eurosceptic and major donor to the Tory party, refused to rise to the
bait, saying he supported Mr Cameron's leadership and had given him funding, in
spite of having doubts about some of his policies.

The presentation of the "values" document was also a propaganda coup for the
Tories, with Mr Cameron and his "kitchen cabinet" being shown in a BBC news
bulletin, in his hi-tech kitchen at home going over the details. They included
his defeated challenger, David Davis, his head of policy Oliver Letwin, and
Theresa May, the shadow leader of the House.

LEADING ARTICLE, PAGE 26

ANDY McSMITH, PAGE 27

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 25 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            March 1, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Tory right resists Cameron bid to take centre ground;
POLITICS

BYLINE: By Colin Brown Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 600 words


Right-wing Tory MPs have dismissed David Cameron's attempt to recapture the
centre ground from Tony Blair with a new vision of modern "caring"
Conservativism, saying the exercise was not the Tory leader's "Clause IV".

Just as Mr Blair made a historic break with Labour's socialist past by ditching
Clause IV of the party constitution on state ownership, Mr Cameron is seeking a
break with the Tory past by asking the entire party membership to endorse his
vision in a ballot.

But one senior member of the Cornerstone group which backed Mr Cameron for the
leadership said: "This is not Cameron's Clause IV. We haven't changed. We are
confident that if we get back into power, we will be a low-tax government, tough
on crime and immigration."

Mr Cameron has set his sights on replacing Mr Blair and defeating Gordon Brown
for the votes of middle England when the two go head-to-head at the next
election by issuing a "statement of values" putting economic stability before
tax cuts, making poverty history, and disowning Margaret Thatcher's words by
saying "there is such a thing as society".

A vote for the document, which is expected to be overwhelming, will also give
the green light to the proposal for positive action in the selection of women
and ethnic minority candidates through a so-called A-list of approved people to
fight winnable seats.

"The battle for the hearts and minds of the British people has begun," Mr
Cameron told a rally in London. "There will be a clear choice between our
approach and Gordon Brown's. The party voted for change. Now we have to show
what change means. Not just what we're changing from, but what we're changing
to."

The UK Independence Party (UKIP) leader, Roger Knapman, said that Mr Cameron was
asking Tory members to vote for the transformation of the party into "blue
Labour".

A number of right-wingers are worried about the direction of Mr Cameron's
leadership, but are reluctant to speak publicly, believing that if Mr Cameron
can ape Mr Blair, they may be able to regain power. Eric Forth, a former
minister, raised objections to Mr Cameron's declaration that there would be no
more grammar schools at a private meeting but was booed by fellow Tory MPs.

Mr Cameron's strategy for an end to selection in schools at the age of 11 will
be challenged by Edward Leigh, the chairman of the Cornerstone group and Tory
chairman of the Public Accounts Committee. Mr Leigh will propose that schools be
given the freedom to introduce selection.

Some Tory leadership sources said they had wanted a right-wing backlash from the
Tory hardliners to show they were changing. Last night one senior party official
said: "This was never intended as our Clause IV moment. But we are showing that
this is not just about the leadership changing. If the party votes for this
agenda, it will show that the party has changed."

Lord Tebbit has dismissed Mr Cameron's initiative as "clever marketing", saying
it was difficult to see any differences with Labour. But Stuart Wheeler, another
Eurosceptic and major donor to the Tory party, refused to rise to the bait,
saying that he supported Mr Cameron's leadership and had given him funding, in
spite of having doubts about some of his policies.

The presentation of the "values" document was also a propaganda coup for the
Tories, with Mr Cameron and his "kitchen cabinet" being shown in a BBC news
bulletin, in his hi-tech kitchen at home going over the details. They included
his defeated challenger, David Davis, his head of policy, Oliver Letwin, and
Theresa May, the shadow Leader of the House.

LEADING ARTICLE, PAGE 26

ANDY McSMITH, PAGE 27

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved
