
                               1 of 23 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                               February 28, 2006

ARE EU JOKING?; FRENCH TRYING TO MEDDLE WITH OUR HISTORY LESSONS

BYLINE: by PETER ALLEN

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 413 words


THE French sparked outrage last night by unveiling a plan to "brainwash" British
kids with lessons about the European Union.

Under the scheme, youngsters in every secondary school would be taught the
"values and history" of the cash-guzzling bureaucracy.

As schools across the country struggle to raise learning standards, pupils would
be turned into model young Continental citizens.

Another plan being considered would see traditional British diplomats scrapped
and replaced with EU versions.

Last night, the controversial measures resurrected from the doomed EU
Constitution by French President Jacques Chirac, were branded a costly attack on
British values.

Mark Croucher, spokesman for the UK Independence Party, said:

"It is worrying that we should be talking about brainwashing British children in
this way.

"We are supposed to have a law against forcing propaganda on schoolchildren. I
only hope the Government will resist this."

Graham Brady, Shadow minister for Europe, said: "This is further proof that
President Chirac just doesn't get it.

"French voters threw out the EU Constitution not least because of just this kind
of proposed Brussels bossiness.

"It would be a bit rich if our children were taught lessons about the EU
designed by the man who has done so much to make the EU so unpopular in his own
country."

James Frayne, Campaign Director of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "The idea of
forcing taxpayers to pay for any political propaganda is bad enough at the best
of times.

"But forcing us to pay for EU propaganda to be taught to our schoolchildren is
unbelievable."

The EU lessons are among Chirac's radical "European projects" which will be
launched over the next three months.

They have been picked out of the EU constitutional treaty which lay in tatters
after being rejected in referendums by both France and Holland.

Critics believe Chirac sees his latest EU project as a way of deflecting
domestic political pressure in the wake of bird flu and country-wide rioting.

They say his dream is to see children learning to draw the EU flag and
celebrating Europe Day on May 9. A government source said: "M. Chirac still sees
the EU as something which can be dominated by France.

"Accordingly all lessons being proposed will be aimed at turning out thousands
of Frenchstyle young citizens."

Under the proposed diplomatic shake-up, British embassies would be closed in
favour of EU embassies.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2006 Express Newspapers

                               2 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               February 26, 2006

Get a work-life balance

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 481 words


What do you get when you ask some worthies, led by a trade union grandee,
whether women are bumping up against the glass ceiling in the job market? The
unexceptional answer, according to Baroness Prosser's Women and Work Commission,
is that of course they are. Three decades after the introduction of equal pay
legislation, women's earnings still lag behind men's. Many women, it seems, end
up in jobs where there is no clear career progression.

One of the answers, according to the commission's final report, is that girls
are still being steered towards "stereotypical" subjects and careers. To counter
that it wants television soap operas to produce more positive female role models
and for advertising to follow suit. The government should leave well alone.

Advertising and television long ago decided that men are to be portrayed as
gormless, emotionally arrested idiots, while even Hollywood now produces films
about female serial killers, such as Kill Bill (there's equality for you). Can
the soaps get more politically correct than they already are without losing
audience share?

More seriously, the commission says there are barriers to women in traditional
male occupations, a lack of quality part-time work, the challenge of maintaining
careers if women take breaks to have babies and the difficulty of getting
training. Gordon Brown will respond in next month's budget, promising money to
help women to get extra skills. Part of the problem is that the governmment is
juggling two agendas at once. Giving women generous maternity rights, with plans
for 12 months' paid leave, may be good for its family-friendly agenda but does
not help women's employability. Few would go as far as Godfrey Bloom, Euro MP
for the UK Independence party, who said: "No self-respecting small businessman
with a brain in the right place would ever employ a lady of child-bearing age."
But the risk, especially among small employers, is there.

Has the commission identifed a problem requiring government action or merely a
phenomenon? Female medical students have outnumbered their male counterparts for
years and now account for 60% of the total. Most choose to become GPs rather
than hospital consultants. More women are being called to the bar than men. But
again they tend to shun the highest paid jobs in corporate law. If women were to
make more money in the City than men, and put in the relentless hours, do they
think the people who run these money- obsessed banks and institutions would
really allow men to keep them down?

The answer may be more subtle. There are undoubtedly injustices and some careers
are derailed by childbirth. But perhaps what we are seeing is that women are
choosing a better work-life balance and opting for quality of life. Short of
imposing a ruinous 35-hour week, there is not much the government can do about
that. And who knows, maybe women are on to something.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 25, 2006 Saturday

Leading article: David Cameron: Banking on pragmatism

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 643 words


There is an infamous moment in Conservative party history, only partly created
by Winston Churchill's subsequent portrayal, when Stanley Baldwin acknowledged
putting the party's electoral prospects ahead of the country's need to rearm. It
is the 70th anniversary this year of the Commons debate when Baldwin told MPs
that no party advocating rapid rearmament could hope to have won the previous
year's election, as he had with 53% of the popular vote. Tory diehards are
already preparing the ground for a similar charge of betrayal against their new
leader.

For the moment, the Thatcherite grumbling - most recently in this newspaper by
Stanley Kalms and in the columns of Prospect magazine by Robin Harris -
signifies nothing more than proof that David Cameron is moving in a more
electable direction. He is doing much better than any of his recent
predecessors; but is not yet doing terribly well. Since his election in
December, the Tories have nosed ahead in the polls after 14 years of flatlining,
a big achievement. However, the lead is only a few points, and sometimes not
even that. He cannot afford too many catastrophes like the Dunfermline
byelection result when the Tories were left trailing in fourth place, and he
would be ill-advised to await the kind of crisis that Thatcherites remember so
fondly, the winter of discontent that transformed tax-cuts, monetarism and
hostility to trade unions into electorally attractive propositions. The
government has problems ahead, but as David Cameron rightly anticipates, they
are unlikely to lend allure to the doctrinaire agenda of the traditional Tory
diehard.

So far, Mr Cameron has been lucky and smart. The one area where he would not be
forgiven for abandoning the old party line is Europe. Instead, he has incurred
the wrath of other European centre-right leaders and taken it to an even more
sceptical position by promising to withdraw Tory MEPs from the European People's
party. Since Europe does not loom large on the domestic horizon, and residual
feeling tends to the hostile, he has escaped serious difficulty. But he has
taken significant risks with treasured party dogma on tax, on selection in
education, women in politics and - though not yet fleshed out - the environment.
Among the electorate he has established himself, despite flimsy evidence, as the
greenest of the current crop of party leaders. It is not clear what
interventionist powers a Cameron government would take to pursue his
aspirations. His bravest move has been to declare against the 11-plus and
further selection in education - the move that seems most to have irritated one
of the party's leading backers, the spread-betting tycoon Stuart Wheeler. Almost
as provocatively, he is clearly determined to use the power of Central Office to
ensure that Conservative candidates in the next election will represent
contemporary society a good deal more effectively than at the last, a move that
has ruffled many in a party that is still inclined to cite Margaret Thatcher as
a pioneer of gender equality.

There are undoubtedly affronted Tories, although nowhere near enough to justify
the renegade UK Independence party's claim that offering them succour will
restore its fortunes. Mr Cameron can safely assert that the two-to-one margin by
which he won only last December is a mandate for change. He knows his political
history: and he has a far greater challenge than cuddling up to the core vote.
He has to prove that his party has a reason to exist into its third century. It
positioned itself on the wrong side of the modernisation argument in the 19th
century and teetered on the brink of it in the first half of the 20th. But it
has always had an appetite for power that has fostered what the Conservative
historian Lord Blake once called "wholesome pragmatism". It may not be glorious.
But it's what democracy is for.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 23, 2006 Thursday
                              Correction Appended

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Jon Henley

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 707 words


Encouraged, doubtless, by the Express's thought-provoking campaign proving
conclusively that Diana, Princess of Wales and Dodi Al Fayed were most foully
murdered by the British secret services at the behest of the royal family, Tony
Blair and, quite possibly, the Archbish of Canterbury, Mohamed Al Fayed has
returned to the fray. An entertaining exchange of letters reaches the Diary in
which the Harrods owner (and Dodi's father) berates Paul Murphy, chairman of the
all-party parliamentary intelligence and security committee, for being prepared
to grill the prime minister about his knowledge of the so-called CIA torture
flights while refusing for some reason to give him the same kind of grief over
Di and Dodi's demise. "How can it be," Mr Fayed demands, "that the position of
overseas terrorist suspects receives such immediate and painstaking attention by
your committee, but when I shout out loud for investigation into security
services involvement in the murder of Princess Diana (the mother of the future
King of this country) and Dodi, my pleas go unanswered for eight years?" Such a
"momen tous and horrific action" would, after all, have been "directly
sanctioned by the PM" and his henchmen, and neither God nor Mr Murphy must "let
them get away with it". He's right, of course.

Or at least 94% of us think so. According to a thought-provoking poll in the
Express.

Which takes us, seamlessly, to Holland, where the recent and unexpected triumph
of local darts players in international competitions (only last month, we learn,
Jelle Klaasen and Raymond van der Barneveld did battle for the title of world
champion) has triggered a spate of darts-related injuries. According to the
Dutch consumer-safety association, most are due to players launching darts
before opponents have retrieved theirs, causing some nasty speared fingers. But
almost as many stem from poorly fixed darts boards falling on unfortunate Dutch
feet and, worse, heads. The association advises all would-be Dutch world darts
champs not to smoke anything other than cigarettes for at least four hours
before practising. (Actually, they don't. That was cruel and unnecessary and we
made it up.)

Building on the unexpected success of its first general-election appearance,
when, readers will recall, its support surged to 2% from a meagre 16% in the
previous year's European poll, Ukip has adopted the sensible strategy of picking
up any policy recently abandoned by the Tories as a sure-fire vote loser. Prior
to launching this innovative drive to broaden its appeal, the anti-EU party
turned to a few thinktanks for help. Most turned them down, but Julian Morris of
the International Policy Network agreed, we are told, to advise Ukip on the
environment. We assume that is not the same IPN that believes climate change is
"a myth", that the scientists who warn of it are "an embarrassment" and that, in
any event, global warming would bring with it benefits such as "increasing fish
stocks in the North Sea" and "reducing the incidence of temperature-related
deaths among vulnerable people". Nor, of course, the IPN that got $165,000 from
the eco-warriors at Exxon Oil as part of its "climate-change outreach"
programme. Still, any port in those (increasingly heavy and frequent) storms.

Today sees hearings resume at the Adjudication Panel for England into whether
Ken Livingstone failed to treat others with respect, or brought his office into
disrespute, when he accused a Jewish Evening Standard reporter of behaving like
"a concentration-camp guard". We would not, of course, dream of opining on the
rights or wrongs of this case. But we see that the fate of the twice-elected
mayor of London will be decided by David Laverick, pensions ombudsman; Darryl
Stephenson, chief executive of the East Riding of Yorkshire council until his
retirement in September, in which post he received a £36,000 pay rise while the
council was cutting services; and Peter Norris, a statistician. Upstanding men
all, but elected to - not a lot. That'll be democracy at work, we presume.

Finally, we learn from the Combined Press Info Centre of the Multinational Force
in Iraq that US forces have found a large cash in Anbar province. We'll drink to
that, guys.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 4, 2006 Saturday



CORRECTION: In a Diary item, February 23, page 31, we said Julian Morris of the
International Policy Network had agreed to advise Ukip on the environment. Mr
Morris would like to make clear that he has not been contacted by Ukip
requesting his advice and he has not agreed to advise it on environmental
policy.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 23, 2006 Thursday

Politics: Senior Tories voice fears at shift to left: Praise for Cameron
tempered by warnings: 'There's a lot we have concerns about' - Kalms

BYLINE: Tania Branigan and Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 633 words


Senior Tories have concerns about much of David Cameron's reform programme, a
major donor and former party treasurer warned yesterday, following growing
criticism from the right of the party.

Lord Kalms, who backed David Davis for the leadership, praised Mr Cameron for
his energetic start and willingness to listen. But he told the Guardian that a
Tory government would need to implement tax cuts and added: "Certainly, there's
a lot that we have concerns about. It's not a time to be discontented, but we
are prepared." He added: "It's premature to come to the conclusion that we are
off course. We are loyal and, yes, trying to influence the shape of the Tory
party."

Conservative rightwingers fear that the party is shifting to the left, citing Mr
Cameron's praise for Tony Blair, attack on big business and refusal to promise
tax cuts. Specific policy commitments such as ruling out the 11-plus have also
alarmed some traditionalists.

Lord Tebbit, former party chairman, compared Mr Cameron's "purge" of Thatcherism
to the actions of Pol Pot. Then came an uncomfortable meeting with the No
Turning Back group of Thatcherite MPs and a warning from Derek Conway, a senior
aide to Mr Davis, that Mr Cameron could lose the traditional Tory vote if he
moved too far, too fast.

The UK Independence party has already embraced lower taxes and a return to
grammar schools in an explicit appeal to disaffected Conservatives. "We're
parking our tanks on David Cameron's abandoned lawn," said Nigel Farage MEP.

Now Robin Harris, a former speechwriter to Mrs Thatcher, has warned that Mr
Cameron is systematically repositioning the party to the left, to the "thinly
disguised contempt" of many Conservatives.

In a forthcoming article for Prospect magazine, he argues that alienating the
party's electoral base is potentially disastrous, adding: "There are good
reasons why every Tory leader since Margaret Thatcher has started by proclaiming
the party's transformation into something kinder, gentler and more leftwing -
and then conducted a sharp rightward turn."

But William Hague, one of those former leaders, has reminded critics that Mr
Cameron beat his rival by two votes to one when he campaigned on the "change to
win" slogan. "He has a very strong mandate for change from the members," the
shadow foreign secretary insisted. At present, said another shadow cabinet
minister, "there is some discontent, but no coherent group of plotters. The
opposition is inchoate".

Mr Cameron has stuck by the right of the party on key areas, such as ending
links with the main centre-right grouping at Strasbourg and restoring fox
hunting if elected. "My guess is David Cameron is not a political wet. He is a
far tougher proposition than people think," said one MP. Others suggest that Mr
Cameron's promise to "stand up to big business", and shadow chancellor George
Osborne's warning that he would not put tax cuts ahead of economic stability,
signal a change of tone rather than policy. Mr Osborne will today praise
Ireland's low-tax economy in a speech in Dublin.

"I don't think (Mr Cameron's) shoving the party leftwards . . . Fundamentally,
he's saying we need to be a little bit more caring, with evident moral values -
and those things are absolutely right," said Howard Flight, the former MP for
Arundel and South Downs, who was sacked by Michael Howard for saying the party
planned greater public spending cuts than it had announced.

The leader's first real challenge will come after Easter when Tory MPs may be
asked to support Tony Blair's education bill as a half-hearted step in the right
direction, which may also split Labour. His fate also rests on the party's
progress in the polls - ICM/Guardian research this week put it on 37%, three
points clear of Labour - and performance at the May local elections.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          February 23, 2006, Thursday

No 114: Metric road signs

SECTION: FEATURES; Times2; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 247 words


When the roads go metric the speed limit on motorways will be 120km per hour.

What's that in old money, then?

Er, hang on, um, let's see. Multiply by .6214 -no that's much too hard. So, OK,
divide by eight and multiply by five ...

Good Lord, you can't be doing all that counting on your fingers and frowning
stuff while you're driving.

It's 74.568 miles an hour.

Swizz! That's not much more than we're allowed now.

Yes, but it works out better in town -it'll be 50km/h. That's 31.07mph. It'll
shave seconds off the school run.

Better chance of mowing down old ladies in the SUV while talking on your mobile,
then.

Wonder how the police will deal with it: "Excuse me, madam, but did you know you
were exceeding the speed limit just now?"

"Oh really? And by how much, officer?"

"Six kilometres an hour, madam."

"Six? Really? And how much would that be in miles and yards and feet, officer?
I'd like a precise answer, please."

The London Marathon will be nearly 39km. Makes you tired to think about it. What
will the Royal Mile be? The Royal 1.6km?

You know, we're the only country in Europe that doesn't have metric distance
signs. Neil Kinnock (remember him? ginger, Welsh bloke) says that imperial road
signs contradict our image as a modern, multicultural, dynamic country where the
future is approached with creativity and confidence.

UKIP won't like it. They'll be spray-painting metric signs and standing on
motorway bridges in Spiderman suits.

That's Fathers for Justice.

Well, same sort of thing.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                          February 22, 2006 Wednesday

Britain - UKIP reviews policies in attempt to gain votes

LENGTH: 162 words


The UK Independence Party announced a review of its domestic policies yesterday,
in a bid to woo rightwingers disillusioned by the liberal posturing of Tory
leader David Cameron.

While opposition to British membership of the EU will remain at the heart of
UKIP policies, chairman David Campbell-Bannerman declared that the party would
focus more on issues such as education, immigration and trade.

It will support a return to educational selection and grammar schools, oppose
Labour's target of 50 per cent of young people in university, fight for
"common-sense" immigration policies and promise lower taxes.

"I think there is a huge opportunity here. It's time for a major realignment,"
said Mr Campbell-Bannerman.

"We had one 100 years ago with the Labour Party. It's time for a new one today."

UKIP seized 10 seats in the European Parliament with a 16 per cent share of the
vote in the last Euro-election, but it won just 2.2 per cent support in last
year's general election.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          February 22, 2006, Wednesday

Tories aim to cut Scots MPs' power in Westminster

BYLINE: David Charter and Greg Hurst

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 709 words


WILLIAM HAGUE disclosed Tory ambitions to cut back the influence of Scottish MPs
on laws affecting England during an attack on Gordon Brown and his powerbase
yesterday.

Mr Hague, the Shadow Foreign Secretary, barely touched on international issues
as he delivered a 20-minute tirade against the Chancellor for being bossy and
"stuck in the past".

The attack in a speech in London was part of the Conservative strategy to
portray Mr Brown as generationally out of touch compared with David Cameron, the
Tory leader, who is 16 years his junior.

Mr Hague said that Mr Brown had borrowed or imported his ideas on improving
national cohesion, such as a call for a British Day and for the British flag to
be flown in every garden.

He opened a new line of attack on the Chancellor, the man most likely to lead
Labour against the Tories at the next election, for his defence of Scottish MPs'
power at Westminster. In a revival of his own policy as leader of the
Conservative Party in the four years to 2001, Mr Hague added: "As Leader of the
Opposition during the debates we had on devolution I feel no pleasure in
pointing out that Scottish Labour MPs forcing through changes to England's laws
does not make for a more harmonious United Kingdom.

"Anyone who thinks that we can carry on legislating for England in exactly the
same way as we did before devolution is clearly living in the past."

Mr Hague's taunt foreshadows the work on the so-called West Lothian Question
being carried out by Kenneth Clarke's democracy task force, set up by Mr
Cameron. He seemed to suggest that it would recommend withdrawing voting rights
from MPs in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland over measures in the Commons
deemed to affect only England.

Labour pointed out, however, that the number of Scottish MPs was reduced by 13
at the last election to 59 in boundary changes designed to reflect the impact of
devolution.

In questions after the speech, Mr Hague was forced to defend Mr Cameron from
right-wing critics who are increasingly attacking some of his leader's policy
decisions.

Stuart Wheeler, the Tory donor who set a record for single gifts when he gave £
5 million, said that he was disappointed yesterday that Mr Cameron now opposed
increased schools selection. Mr Wheeler also dismissed the environmental
commission set up by Mr Cameron as "pie in the sky".

His comments came after reports that an anonymous donor had cancelled a £
250,000 gift because of concerns about the leftwards direction the party was
taking.

Mr Wheeler insisted that, despite supporting Liam Fox and then David Davis for
leader, he now backed Mr Cameron and would continue to provide financial
support.

"I was disappointed that he rejected selection by ability," he told BBC Radio 5
Live.

Mr Hague said that one of Mr Cameron's attractions was that, unlike Mr Brown, he
was "free of ideological baggage".

He added: "David Cameron has a very strong mandate for changing the Conservative
Party, an overwhelming mandate from the party members. Inevitably there will be
the occasional criticisms. It is not possible to carry out such a process
without criticism.

"I would point out to critics that what David is doing is in the finest
traditions of the Conservative Party."

The UK Independence Party tried to exploit a potential gap left by David
Cameron's march to the centre ground with an attempt yesterday to rebrand itself
by embracing a broader range of politics aimed at right-wing voters.

It will advocate a flat tax system, protectionist trade policies with
preferential treatment for Commonwealth countries and a return to grammar
schools, in addition to its core platform of withdrawal from the European Union
and a freeze on net immigration.

The UKIP's planned emphasis on grammar schools, plus commitments to abolish
university tuition fees, are clearly intended to appeal to traditional Tories
after announcements by Mr Cameron dropping his party's opposition to top-up fees
and ruling out a return to selection.

Nigel Farage, one of the UKIP MEPs, said: "We are without any shadow of a doubt
parking our tanks on David Cameron's abandoned lawn. International trade is an
area where virtually every single major donor to the Tory party is screaming,
'We must be able to determine our own policy'. "

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               February 21, 2006

Ukip targets 'abandoned' Tory voters

LENGTH: 448 words



HIGHLIGHT: Ukip, the anti-EU fringe party, is repositioning itself in an attempt
to capture the five million Tory voters it believes have been 'abandoned' by
David Cameron's Conservatives.


Ukip, the anti-EU fringe party, is repositioning itself in an attempt to capture
the five million Tory voters it believes have been "abandoned" by David
Cameron's Conservatives.

The party - which has no MPs, but gained 10 MEPs on the back of Robert
Kilroy-Silk's brief membership - will overhaul five domestic policy areas to
pull the party to the right, and may even change its name.

The party's chairman, David Campbell-Bannerman, today said the party would be
seeking to "emphasise the independence" part of its title, with more freedoms
for schools and hospitals.

Although MEP Nigel Farage is probably the best-known member of the party, Mr
Campbell-Bannerman told the Today programme it was "quite remarkable to see how
the right-of-centre has been abandoned by all three parties.

"There are 18 million non-voters in this country now and this is a problem for
our democracy. Five million of those are abandoned Tory voters, so that is a
good start."

While keeping its unique call for an immediate "amicable divorce" from the EU,
Ukip will be reviewing domestic policy in an attempt to win votes. That covers
five areas: education, trade, immigration, taxes, and parliamentary democracy.

Mr Campbell-Bannerman said the party's school policy would be "pro-selection,
pro-grammar" and they would abolish the government's target of 50% university
admissions.

"We want to regain our trade, and trade with the commonwealth again. We want
commonsense immigration and to regain control of our borders.

"We stand for simplified taxes and we are looking at a flat tax as a radical way
forward."

He said the party was also concerned about the so-called "West Lothian
question", whereby under devolution Scottish MPs at Westminster could vote on
matters pertaining to England, while many Scottish policy areas were devolved to
the Holyrood parliament.

Ukip were heavily funded in the past by the Yorkshire millionaire Paul Sykes,
but he abandoned the party when it one-time member, Mr Kilroy-Silk, declared he
wanted to "destroy" the Tory party.

Mr Kilroy-Silk left acrimoniously to form his own breakaway party, Veritas,
after the success of the 2004 European elections, but later disbanded that
party. He is still officially an MEP.

Mr Campbell-Bannerman said it was time for a "major realignment" of British
politics of the kind seen when Labour emerged as a parliamentary force 100 years
ago.

"We believe that people are being denied real choice and we have a sort of grand
coalition arising of three social democratic parties," he told the BBC.

Ukip won 10 seats in the European parliament with a 16% share of the vote in the
last European elections, but won just 2.2% support in last year's general
election.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               10 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            February 19, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

CROSS BENCHER;
LEADER CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: LEADER; 27

LENGTH: 49  words


Meanwhile, Ukip MEP Nigel Farage, a militant smoker, wants MPs to be banned from
bars until the anti-smoking legislation comes into force in 2007 to protect
their health.

There is, though, at least one crumb of comfort for repeat offenders under the
new Health Bill.

Prisons are exempt from the ban.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          February 15, 2006, Wednesday

UKIP press office is not a non-smoking environment

BYLINE: Hugo Rifkind

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 79 words


All the parliamentary tinkering over the Health Bill, which aims to ban smoking
in the workplace and in all public buildings by 2007, seems to have wafted far,
far over the heads of the UK Independence Party, the old buffer's pretend party
of choice.

"The UKIP press office is NOT a non-smoking environment," runs a recent ad for a
new press officer, "and applicants are requested to bear this in mind."
Presumably it wouldn't have been a free vote for them. If they had any MPs.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            February 10, 2006 Friday

Romans? It's still no holiday;
Its Friday! Theatre

BYLINE: QUENTIN LETTS

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 1266 words


The Romans In Britain

(Sheffield Crucible)

Verdict: Bend over, Caractacus, there's a good Celt ***

SHOCK is the main thrust of Howard Brenton's Romans In Britain. By using the
shock of violent sex and murder, the shock of brutal self-inquiry, the
playwright hopes to tell us something dark about imperialism.

Mr Brenton's Romans, far from being spreaders of Gibbonesque values, are racist
slashers, salters of peasant farmland. Cut, immediately, to scenes of the recent
British Army in operation in Ulster.

The trouble is that by the end of it all one is so numbed (and a little bored)
by the unyielding unpleasantness that it's hard to feel much interest in the
two-dimensional characters on stage.

With the body count nearing 15 (including one dead Irish wolfhound) and much
pagan blood licking, I found I couldn't really care less which character was
going to be next to bite the dust. This play was written before the vogue for
victimhood. How bland its cruelty seems without a leavening of sympathy. The
politics are pretty basic, too.

When it premiered at the National Theatre in 1980 Mary Whitehouse unsuccessfully
took its director to court. Dear old Mrs Whitehouse never actually saw the show
(she sent her lawyer instead) but she found accounts of the homosexual rape
scene hard to deal with.

TWENTY-SIX years on that infamous scene is still a bit uncomfortable. But it has
lost its novelty value. Sexual degradation at the theatre is now more common
than buttered crumpet. The male nudity also failed to raise more than a mild
crossing of legs from a group of schoolgirls in the audience.

Several muscular young men strut around starkers, one fella even doing a
cartwheel, the better to display his modest lunchbox. Well, bully for him.

As grandmothers have long said, 'put it away, pet, we've all seen one before and
it isn't clever'.

Nonetheless, I rather enjoyed the first half. The depiction of Roman bestiality
seems a legitimate historical exercise and it is interesting to ponder how fast
life must have changed for the Ancient Brits once Julius Caesar arrived in 54BC.

Judith Scott has fun playing the matriarch of the British tribe, her accent pure
Archers.

Caesar is played by Tom Mannion as something of a crazy. I found his harsh
treatment of a senior officer almost more shocking than the physical knockabout.

The first half closes with a young slave (Laura Rees) throwing stones at armed
soldiers. How like Palestine or Basra of 2006. It's not bad for a play this old
still to raise a topical resonance.

The second half falls away sharply. Romans are replaced first by Saxons, which
leads into some sub-Asterix costumes and an embarrassing comedy sequence
involving two cooks.

The audience is instructed to see parallels of nasty Roman imperialists with
British squaddies in 1980 Ulster.

An unhinged British officer (Guy Williams) tries to make peace with the IRA
because he feels he owes it to history.

The Provos do us all a favour and shoot him.

Samuel West's slightly cluttered direction is helped at one point by the arrival
of a real Land Rover on stage. In the middle of the set is a deep, splashy pool
in which the naked men bathe and brutalise one another.

In 1980 it must have all been far more shocking and therefore far more clever as
a theatrical stunt. Today it feels a little passE. Mr Brenton watched the first
night in Sheffield with apparent amusement but his play does not feel like a
work of lasting genius.

As I left I saw one theatregoer had taken along a lad who can not have been more
than 12. Old enough to fight the Romans, once, but surely too young for a play
this explicit.

It starts with a blasted Heath...

The Schuman Plan

(Hampstead Theatre)

Verdict: How 'traitor' Ted led us into Europe ***

THIS Eurosceptic drama, which opened in Hampstead this week, certainly develops
with some surprise.The programme carries an interview with playwright Tim
Luscombe which makes one expect a pro-Brussels snow job.

Mr Luscombe's effort turns out to be a spirited assault on the late Sir Edward
Heath. It also attacks the way supporters of the European Union promoted their
scheme without telling the British electorate of their sly, federalist
ambitions.

Prime Minister Heath, in an imagined aside about his Norwegian counterpart in
1972, sighs:'Honestly! He will keep talking to his people! I don't know how he
gets anything done.' Much of the old boy's vanity and arrogance is caught in
Simon Robson's performance.

Preparing to conduct a gala concert one evening, Heath goes serenely mad with
his pro-European rhetoric.

Heath is not the only politician portrayed. Sean Baker does Clement Attlee while
Mr Robson also takes on Jean Monnet, the French official credited with writing
the post-war Schuman Plan which created Brussels. Robert Hands plays an intense
aide who resigns from Heath's service in disgust at his deceit.

Elizabeth Hurran catches the eye in supporting roles.

The 'historical'scenes are easily the most satisfying in a show which hops to
and from subplots about characters Ted Heath might have dismissed as 'little
people'.We get to see the misery that Euro quotas have caused among East Anglian
fishermen (requiring the cast to adopt hefty accents to remind us we're in
Suffolk).

The Hampstead audience didn't quite know how to take the politics. One of
Heath's anti-Thatcher lines won a ragged cheer.

The rest of the show is devastatingly critical of the European dream.

The Schuman Plan is refreshing, and surely a must for anyone who votes UKIP.

VERSIONS of some reviews appeared in earlier editions.

Ever magnetic, the Iron Lady

Thatcher The Musical

(Warwick Arts Centre)

Verdict: The diva of Downing Street ****

WE ALL know about 'Exit - Pursued By A Bear' but now British theatre has a fresh
stage direction to relish: 'Enter - A Giant Handbag.' On it trundled, 8ft high,
and from the audience there came a rush of affectionate recognition. Mrs T!

They miss her.

This new musical comedy is not sarcastic. It is not satirical, like some Tory
take on The Producers or The Munsters, as it might easily have been.

It features a large number of Maggie hairdos straight off Spitting Image.

But the humour is not sneering. This production is part biographical, part
celebratory tease. It is, by and large, amazingly kind about the old girl.

The cast of ten are all young women. They take it in turns to play Margaret
Hilda, whose progress we follow from Grantham to 10 Downing Street. There's
Margaret the dowdy girl ('she was only a grocer's daughter, riding high on what
Daddy taught her', go the lyrics), a Military Maggie in Fidel fatigues, and so
forth.

As we swooshed through the Thatcher story I became a little worried about the
artistic health of this enterprise. Is it a work of dramatic imagination or just
a regurgitation of a well-known life?

Quirkiness saves the hour. When she gives birth to twins Carol and Mark there
are two loud cork pops.

When the Falkland Islands is mentioned the chorus line start imitating penguins.

The songs include 'Time For A Cabinet Shuffle' and a punk rock number which has
Maggie leaping at the microphone like Sid Vicious.

The show ends with an even wilder concept: a black Maggie!

Political downsides are not ignored. The Thatcher era's less noble
accomplishments are all presented. A hip flask appears quite early in
proceedings and by the end, bereft without Denis, losing her marbles, Maggie
swigs lustily from a bottle of Bell's. But the audience did not laugh at that.

They hadn't come to mock. Nor to pity her. They had come to remember with amused
warmth and, perhaps, to wish for the old days when politics was worth a show
tune.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            February 10, 2006 Friday
                              Correction Appended

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Jon Henley

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 681 words


Boundless (and we mean it) was our joy as we learned yesterday from the culture
secretary, Tessa Jowell, that oodles of tourist moolah will indeed shower down
on the nation in the run-up to the 2012 Olympics. While we "will have to get
started now" to reap the full benefit, Ms Jowell said in a press release, "we
believe (income from tourism) can grow to £100bn by 2012". So imagine our
confusion when another obviously well-informed and objective source, who quite
clearly had no political axe to grind, pointed us gaily in the direction of a
foreword published by the member for Dulwich and West Norwood in 2004, in which
she stressed her "great confidence" that Britain would be able to "keep pace
with world travel forecasts" and achieve "an industry turnover of £100bn as a
minimum" by, er, 2010. As the great international festival of selfless sporting
endeavour nears, it seems, curiously, that our tourism targets are going
backwards.

You read it here first (maybe). Barry Manilow's latest album, a compilation of
50s hits, has just entered the US charts at No 1. Our unhesitating response to
this news is: run.

Yet there is clearly more to the 50s than the Diary thought. Just when we hoped
we had nothing to fear after all from Jose Manuel Barroso, we learn with dismay
that we underestimate him at our peril: the affable European commission
president - voted in a shock poll the most powerful man in Britain by lots of
people who claimed to be innocent Today programme listeners, but turned out,
thank heavens, to be dastardly supporters of Ukip - has what can only be called
a suspiciously detailed knowledge of the popular British culture of that era. He
tells a BBC documentary to be broadcast tomorrow that his now infamous jibe at
Tony Blair's EU budget proposals ("like the sheriff of Nottingham taking from
the poor to give to the rich") was inspired directly by his "fond boyhood
memories" of The Adventures of Robin Hood, the legendary 1955-59 ITV series
starring Richard Green whose stirring theme ("Robin Hood, Robin Hood, riding
through the glen") many of us may, if forced, still be able to whistle (even if,
oddly, we were not born at the time). Ponder that if you will, and quake.

Even if we can no longer trust our booksellers (after Blackwell's unfortunate
Bronti blunder, exclusively revealed by the Diary this week, a reader reports
that in one London bookstore he was told, on asking where he might find Alison
Lurie, that she was "probably working in the basement"), it is good to know we
can still rely on The Bookseller. That estimable organ yesterday unveiled the
shortlist for its annual Oddest Title of the Year Award, a contest previously
won by such worthy entries as Bombproof Your Horse; Versailles: the View from
Sweden; Living With Crazy Buttocks; and the memorable Proceedings on the Second
International Workshop on Nude Mice. This year's frontrunner is obviously
Nessus, Snort and Ethereal Powertools (Elsevier), though the Diary harbours
hopes for People Who Don't Know They're Dead: How They Attach Themselves to
Unsuspecting Bystanders and What To Do About It (Red Wheel/Weiser).

Time, perhaps, for our ever-popular Global Weird Crime Roundup. In Bordeaux, we
hear, a 33-year-old woman has been arrested on suspicion of calling the fire
brigade a startling 6,749 times since January 2005. In Maryland, the Baltimore
Sun informs us, one Philip Akbar Shabaz has been sentenced to jail for failing
to pay fines totalling $8,400 on 402 overdue library books. And in the little
town of Lonoke, Arkansas (pop: 4,300), AP excitedly reports, the mayor has been
arrested in a corruption probe, the police chief has resigned amid allegations
of theft, burglary and manufacturing crystal meth, and his wife is accused of
regularly releasing prisoners from jail for afternoon sex romps.

Finally, in our series Scientific Experiments We Do Not Get, we are indebted to
World Science for news that experimental Japanese biologists are busy
reproducing the same salivatory response as Pavlov's dogs in cockroaches. We are
tempted to ask: why?

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 17, 2006 Friday



CORRECTION:  Richard Greene, not Green, starred in the children's TV series, The
Adventures of Robin Hood (Diary, page 33, February 10).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 9, 2006 Thursday

The biggest Tory fear is that Cameron really is a liberal: The ghastly thought
is starting to dawn on the Conservative troops that perhaps their general means
what he says

BYLINE: Vincent Cable

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1099 words


Capitalist societies are characterised by speculative bubbles: dotcom shares;
property; bonds; and now Cameroons. Speculative bubbles are driven by the
unshakeable belief of punters that markets always go up and never come down.
Usually, bubbles burst. Investors in Blunketts, Milburns, Portillos, Hagues and
Howards have little to show for the fashionable certainty that they would be the
next prime ministers. But sometimes - albeit rarely - a new stock emerges with
strong and durable fundamentals. Thatcher was one, Tony Blair another. Is
Cameron one of these?

Cameron has emerged very quickly to a friendly critical reception. He has
undoubted style. He is making a brazen bid for the political ground occupied by
New Labour and my own party. I suspect I am not the only Liberal Democrat to
have received chummy emails addressed to "my fellow liberal", or invitations to
join his shadow cabinet (albeit via the somewhat impersonal medium of the Daily
Mail). These fishing expeditions are unlikely to net any more than the odd,
obscure ex-candidate, but they demonstrate chutzpah.

The important question is whether there is substance as well as style. The
effortless progress Cameron has enjoyed within his party is striking. This is in
marked contrast to the years of struggle during which Kinnock, Smith, Blair and
Brown transformed the Labour party; the intense intellectual and personal
battles Thatcher fought with her party's "wets"; and the fierce debates that my
party enjoys on positioning and policy.

So far, Cameron hasn't fought anyone over anything. His fans put this down to
brilliant generalship. A more likely explanation is that his troops haven't yet
progressed from the parade ground to the battlefield. Moreover there are two
radically different views of what his generalship is designed to achieve.

The first is the conventional wisdom shared by most of his supporters and
opponents, that all the stuff about liberalism is a clever affectation. On this
view, he is essentially concerned with rebadging an old and familiar product:
the politics of Michael Howard, his mentor, and Iain Duncan Smith, presented
with a charming smile and a dexterous turn of phrase. He is making the nasty
seem nice. If that is all that is involved, we can relax. In due course, the
feint to the centre will be followed by a familiar lunge to the right: with talk
of swamping by immigrants, European conspiracies, and the evils of taxation. The
Mail and Telegraph will crack the whip. Open-neck shirts and recreational drugs
will go the way of William Hague's baseball cap, and we'll be back on familiar
terrain.

But the ghastly thought is beginning to dawn on the Conservative party - as well
as on New Labour and ourselves - that perhaps he means what he says. It is worth
recalling that his inspiration, Gladstone, was once described by the historian
Thomas Macaulay as the "rising hope of stern and unbending Tories" before
embarking on a long migration to liberalism. Tebbit, whose nostrils are acutely
sensitive to the faintest whiff of ideological betrayal, has publicly expressed
his concerns. Eric Forth has worried out loud about the abandonment of tax cuts.
The Conservatives I meet are less than ecstatic when I greet them with the
Cameroonian embrace of "fellow liberalism".

Cynics will say that none of this matters. Power is everything. If it helps to
win back government, even the dyed-in-the-wool Tories will swallow their pride
and principles. Bill Cash will promote the idea of French as a second official
language. John Redwood will demand government grants for black, lesbian
collectives. When we reflect on the speed with which New Labour types moved from
Trotsky to Tony, large-scale cynicism should not be discounted.

But though I recoil from the Conservative party, I don't think they are quite so
shallow. I suspect there are limits to how far they will compromise cherished
beliefs for the sake of helping a few bright young things to occupy ministerial
berths in what would probably be a minority government. As the son of a Tory
activist, I learned to respect, as well as to fight, Conservative conviction.

Unlike the socialist left, which was politically and intellectually defeated a
decade and a half ago, Conservatives firmly believe history is on their side,
even if the British voters have been temporarily seduced by the charlatan Blair.
They look for inspiration not just to the past but to the US, where they see
that conservative values permeate society at large and where liberalism is a
dirty word. I recently sought to explain current allegiances in a Demos
pamphlet, based on the politics of identity: nation, religion, tribe and race.
While traditional left/right issues are still important - in relation to public
services and taxation - they are overlain by questions of identity. This has
opened up a big gulf on the right between those who are broadly liberal or
libertarian and cosmopolitan in outlook, and what I call the cultural
conservatives. It is a long way from the champagne bars of Notting Hill to the
bowling clubs of Frinton-on-Sea. By pitching strongly for the first
constituency, Cameron may be seriously alienating the second.

There is undoubtedly serious unease in Churchill Halls across the country. The
question is being asked: where will all this political correctness end? Cameron
praises migrants for their economic and cultural contribution, but aren't they
the same people whom, a few months ago, the Tories denounced for living off
social security and bringing Aids and TB into the country? When the country's
top policeman is tip-toeing around the sensitivities of religious minorities,
who will stand up for law and order and the great silent majority?

At present, the cultural conservatives have nowhere else to go. Ukip has been
broken by its unhappy love affair with Robert Kilroy-Silk. The BNP's more
sophisticated attempts to broaden its appeal to voters with an IQ of more than
70 have ended up with the more familiar sight of its leaders brandishing their
fists after a courtroom drama. But there are very many confused, angry people
looking for a lead. Cameron is not, apparently, interested in them. Before long,
he will face a backlash on his own side.

I have no idea whether Cameron believes what he is saying. But if he does, the
Blair-Brown feud and my own party's tribulations will seem like minor skirmishes
when warfare breaks out on the right. As for Cameron shares, my advice is to
sell before the market peaks.

Vincent Cable is MP for Twickenham and the Liberal Democrat Treasury spokesman
cablev@parliament.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           February 9, 2006, Thursday

Bridging the voting gap - by-election at final furlong

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Scotland; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 118 words


(Photograph) - Nicol Stephen, leader of the Scottish Liberal Democrats, and
Willie Rennie, the party's candidate for the Dunfermline and West Fife
by-election, visit the top of the Forth rail bridge yesterday on the last day of
campaigning for the Westminster seat. Labour are defending a majority over the
Lib Dems of more than 11,500 and the issue of rises in Forth road bridge tolls
has loomed large. The other eight candidates contesting today's by-election are:
Ian Borland (UKIP); Douglas Chapman (SNP); James Hargreaves (Scottish Christian
Party); John McAllion (Scottish Socialists); Thomas Minogue (Abolish Tolls);
Dick Rodgers (Common Good); Carrie Ruxton (Conservative) and Catherine Stihler
(Labour).

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo. Caption not available

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 8, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Scots Edition

HOPEFULS IN THE RUNNING FOR FIFE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 234 words


NINE candidates will contest the Dunfermline and West Fife by-election. The
contest was declared following the death of Labour MP Rachel Squire on January 6
this year.

Labour is defending an 11,500 majority in the seat and will contest it with the
SNP, Scottish Tories, Liberal Democrats, and Scottish Socialists. UKIP Scotland,
The Common Good, Scottish Christian Party and the Abolish Forth Bridge Tolls
Party are also standing.

Catherine Stihler will represent the Scottish Labour Party, Carrie Helen Ruxton
is the Scottish Tories' candidate and John McAllion will contest the seat for
the Scottish Socialists.

Willie Rennie stands for the Liberal Democrats while Douglas Chapman will
represent the SNP. Thomas Minogue is standing for the Abolish Forth Bridge Tolls
Party as part of the National Alliance Against tolls (Scotland).

UKIP Scotland's representative is Ian Borland, James George Hargreaves stands
for the Scottish Christian Party "Proclaiming Christ's Lordship" and Dick
Rodgers for The Common Good Party.

Ms Squire, who was elected in 1992, passed away at the age of 51, after a long
battle against cancer. She held the seat at the 2005 General Election, gaining
20,111 votes (47.4 per cent), with a 27.3 per cent majority. Liberal Democrat
candidate David Herbert was in second place with 8,549 votes, Douglas Chapman,
of the SNP, came third with 8,026 votes. Turnout was 42,394 or 59.9 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POLL: McAllion, Rennie & Chapman

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           February 4, 2006 Saturday

Who's that with Julian Segal?;
Who? Six months ago this unknown London writer challenged himself to see how
many celebrities he could be pictured with

BYLINE: SARA LAWRENCE

SECTION: ED 1ST 04; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 704 words


Who's that with Julian Segal?

Who? Six months ago this unknown London writer challenged himself to see how
many celebrities he could be pictured with.

These are the results ...

JONATHAN ROSS: I complimented him on his violet-sheen suit, and he gave me a
calendar of scantily clad men - with his face superimposed over each one.

BOB HOLNESS: An elegant lady I took to be Bob's wife approached and inquired if
I was 'Jonathan'. 'I'm Julian,' I said. Bob then appeared and was just as
charming.

BRUCE OLDFIELD: I asked him what he thought of my fashion sense.

'Appalling,' he replied with a smile, before signing a copy of his
autobiography, Rootless, for my auction.

CHRIS MARTIN: A good bloke, even popping round to my flat to watch the telly. He
scribbled a note for my charity auction in aid of the Royal National Institute
for the Blind.

NICHOLAS PARSONS: The game-show host came in from the cold like a spy - slipping
me a copy of his Nicholas Parsons Quizbook, along with two signed 'Fantasy' CDs.

GEORGE GALLOWAY: He'd just come out of Celebrity Big Brother and had a lot of
bad press, so I expected him to be edgy when I asked for a photo. But he was
lovely about it.

ALAN TITCHMARSH: When we met at Kew Gardens, he'd already been sitting for ages,
exchanging pleasantries with some Yorkshire ladies, and smiling all the while.

GARY LINEKER: We briefly discussed the chances this season of my team,
Tottenham, but Gary was reluctant about making any predictions.

FIONA PHILLIPS: This was the longest I'd spent with anyone I've met so far. I
couldn't resist a hug - and I'd like to point out it was Fiona who suggested it.

SIR IAN McKELLEN: He asked me how many pictures I'd managed to get so far, and
seemed genuinely concerned about my lack of progress.

RICHARD WILSON: He was very obliging, considering that he'd just been playing
Widow Twanky in Cinderella to lots of kids. He gave me a signed photograph.

SIR TIM RICE: He wanted to know how it was all going and suggested that from my
point of view, there may be a book to be written about Greeting the 500.

PATRICK MOORE: We had a brandy and chatted about peacocks, cricket and the UK
Independence Party before I left with a copy of the Atlas Of The Universe.

LORD ARCHER: He let me into his flat, poured me a drink and was charm
personified. He was surprised to learn John Major hadn't replied to my letter.

JOHN McCRIRICK: Big Mac was amusing, and after our photos were taken, I asked
him whether he'd been pulling faces behind my back. He hadn't.

FIONA BRUCE: I was tongue-tied by her beauty and elegance. Perhaps, one day, I
might be able to wed a beauty like Fiona - but with poor eyesight.

LAWRENCE DALLAGLIO: I envisioned the Wasps rugby team stripping me and leaving
me tied to a goalpost. I needn't have worried, Lawrence was a gent.

NEIL KINNOCK: He phoned to say he'd be slightly late. He then asked me to stop
calling him Lord Kinnock as 'it makes me feel so bloody old, call me Neil'.

LORRAINE KELLY: She squeezed my arm reassuringly and complimented me on the
ingenuity of my idea. I was bowled over by her warmth.

DAVID GOWER: After arranging to meet in London's Bond Street, the dapper former
cricketer arrived with his elegant wife, who took the photo of us.

CHRIS TARRANT: We met at the Millionaire studio, where I saw some contestants
being quizzed. Chris donated four VIP tickets for the show.

NICK ROSS: A friend came along on this one, butting in with 'I've met you
before, Nick, at so and so's garden party'. I had to wrench Nick away to get our
photo.

MIKE LEIGH: I met the Secrets And Lies director at his Soho offices.

Julian's website is at: www.greetingthe500.typepad.com DAVID GOWER: After
arranging to meet in London's Bond Street, the dapper former cricketer arrived
with his elegant wife, who took the photo of us.

CHRIS TARRANT: We met at the Millionaire studio, where I saw some contestants
being quizzed. Chris donated four VIP tickets for the show.

NICK ROSS: A friend came along on this one, butting in with 'I've met you
before, Nick, at so and so's garden party'. I had to wrench Nick away to get our
photo.

MIKE LEIGH: I met the Secrets And Lies director at his Soho offices.

Julian's website is at: www.greetingthe500.typepad.com

Interview by Sara Lawrence

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SEE ARTICLE FOR CAPTIONS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           February 4, 2006 Saturday

Features - Opposing job cuts;
Ken Livingstone argues that the Tory and Lib Dem plans to axe staff at City Hall
must be vigorously opposed

BYLINE: Ken Livingstone

LENGTH: 1311 words


Staff working at City Hall have been threatened with redundancy and worsened
working conditions following the publication of Conservative and Lib Dem budget
proposals.

As part of their common position of demanding cuts to the overall Greater London
Authority section of council tax bills - the GLA precept - the Lib Dems and
Tories on the assembly are proposing a concerted attack on the staff working at
City Hall.

The chairwoman and vice-chairman of the assembly - Lib Dem Sally Hamwee and Tory
Brian Coleman - are backing the cuts.

GLA employees deserve support from all quarters of the labour movement against
attempts to cut jobs and conditions.

It is no surprise that both groups want to see swingeing attacks on City Hall
staff.

Indeed, the Tories on the assembly stood on a manifesto with Steve Norris which
argued that "it is essential that the size of the GLA is dramatically reduced."

The Conservative manifesto promised a "thorough review" of the core Greater
London Authority which would "aim at reducing staff numbers by one-third."

This was the cuts platform on which the Tories stood for the assembly.

The Lib Dem-Tory alliance on the assembly has, in the past, used its position as
the body responsible for staffing to make life difficult for many staff teams
working at City Hall, by freezing vacancies, holding up appointments and arguing
about whether new posts were really necessary.

They have now set out detailed staff cuts.

At the budget meeting last week the Tories set out their plans for the "managed
reduction" - that is to say, cut - of 148 posts at City Hall.

The cuts, they argued, "would be done by setting City Hall's establishment level
at 600 posts (79 are currently vacant out of 678) and a managed reduction in
staff posts equivalent to another 70 over the next year as and when they become
available."

Motivating their case, they targeted the staff working on "concerts, parties,
conferences and rallies," which they dismiss as being "usually of a left-wing
nature."

They condemn the funding of the European Social Forum and waiving of room-hire
costs to CND.

And the team producing the Londoner would be slashed, with the Tories claiming
that the newspaper "should be removed from circulation."

The Conservative budget plans cuts in staff teams working on "marketing, press,
public relations and communications."

And, in a bid to woo the One London group on the Assembly - formerly the UKIP
group - Tories have adopted plan to close the GLA Brussels office.

The Lib Dems' plans, which were set out in much less specific detail, ape the
Tories by proposing the slashing of the entire team working on the Londoner
newspaper as well as other unspecified cuts to "publicity."

They also put forward a budget cut of £1.5 million based on increasing vacancies
and other unspecified "efficiencies," amounting to a plan to make staff work
many more hours to cover vacant posts at no extra pay.

Under the GLA Act, the assembly appoints the staff of the authority, including
those working to the mayor.

The Tories and Lib Dems have a second chance to press their cuts programmes at
the assembly budget meeting on February 15.

I will be adding my voice to those vigorously opposing such cuts, which would
damage the work of the Greater London Authority and undermine the working
conditions of staff.

MET POLICE COMMISSIONER VICTIM OF A HATE CAMPAIGN

Right-wing commentators and newspapers have had a field day attacking the
Metropolitan Police commissioner recently.

The tabloid ranters want a head of the Met who reinforces their politics, not
one who shows that working with London's communities rather than against them is
actually a better way of dealing with crime.

It always suited some parts of the press when, in the past, the Met was in
outright conflict with many of London's communities.

Throughout my time as leader of the Greater London Council, the Metropolitan
Police commissioner ensured that no meetings could take place between our
administration and the Met.

Culture Wars, an academic study of the media and the British left, gives plenty
of examples of precisely how bad it was in the 1980s.

It describes how Sir Kenneth Newman, the then commissioner, fuelled the
hysterical tabloid race agenda following riots in London by whipping up bizarre
claims that "groups of Trotskyists and anarchists had been identified as
orchestrating the disturbances in Tottenham and Brixton a week earlier.

"They are both black and white," Sir Kenneth told the press, "and come from
within and outside London, operating in areas of ethnic concentration."

Faithfully following this agenda, the Standard reported later that day on the
plot behind the riot.

As the authors argue, this and other examples demonstrate that "the voices of
the Tories, most of the press and sections of the police sang in harmony."

The calls for Sir Ian Blair to go by sections of the right-wing press and Tory
MPs simply reflect their frustration that he is not willing to let the Met play
that old race game.

So the tabloids call him PC Blair - standing for "politically correct."

This is the real source of the sustained campaign against the leadership of the
Met.

Actually, it is a reflection of how far we have come that it is the commissioner
of the Met who has drawn attention to a problem with the way that crime against
black and Asian Londoners is reported in our press.

The Met can only police the capital if it serves all Londoners equally and is
seen to do so.

It would be a disaster - particularly in a city like London - if the most
right-wing commentators and MPs in the country were once again able to set the
policing agenda.

CONSIGNING THE TORIES' POLLUTION LEGACY TO THE DUSTBIN

From 2008, diesel lorries, coaches and buses that fail to meet a minimum
pollution standard face having to pay a charge if they drive high-polluting
vehicles in London.

Consultation began this week on changes to my transport and air quality
strategies to allow for proposals to make London a low emission zone.

The aim is to improve London's air quality by encouraging operators of large
diesel vehicles to clean up their fleets.

The low emission zone would make London one of the only cities in the world to
have taken such a radical step to tackle pollution.

Under the scheme diesel-engined lorries, coaches and buses would have to meet a
minimum standard - known as Euro III - for particulate emissions.

We are considering a price of between £100 and £200 for the daily charge and
between £500 and £1,000 for the penalty charge.

All London buses under contract to Transport for London now meet a minimum of
Euro IV emission standards for particulates and all London licensed taxis will
have to meet Euro III emission standards for particulates and nitrous oxides by
mid-2008.

London suffers the worst air quality in Britain and among the worst in Europe.

London has taken a series of important steps on the road to better air quality -
not least, by becoming the only major city in the world to achieve a shift from
travelling by car to public transport.

A low emission zone for the whole city will reinforce these achievements and
extend them.

Greenpeace has welcomed the steps that have been taken towards a low emission
zone, arguing: "As well as improving air quality, an LEZ is likely to encourage
the use of less polluting, more fuel efficient vehicles."

By permitting public transport to rot, the Tories ensured that, by the start of
this century, London was groaning under the weight of congestion and suffering
from worsening air quality.

The raft of measures we are now putting in place aims to turn this situation
around - and put that appalling Tory legacy in the dustbin of history where it
belongs.

- To take part in the public consultation on the low emission zone go to
www.tfl.gov.uk/tfl/low-emission-zoneKen Livingstone is Mayor of London. He
writes a fortnightly column for the Morning Star.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 3, 2006 Friday

Cameron rides into town to give Brown a bloody nose Dunfermline by-election
Tories have next to no hope of winning but aim to dent Labour's majority, writes
Alan Cochrane a

BYLINE: Alan Cochrane

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 672 words


IT wasn't quite the Gunfight at the OK Corral - for one thing the protagonists
did not clap eyes on each other - but yesterday marked the first occasion that
David Cameron and Gordon Brown clashed in a head-to-head electoral setting.

The first by-election of Mr Cameron's leadership is taking place next Thursday
in Dunfermline and West Fife, the constituency where Mr Brown lives and part of
which he represented until the general election last year when he switched,
because of boundary changes, to the next-door seat.

And while a more unlikely setting for a Tory triumph would be difficult to
imagine - Willie Gallagher, Britain's last Communist MP, represented this part
of the world - Mr Cameron arrived in Fife yesterday determined to give Mr Brown
a bloody nose in his own backyard.

The upshot was more excitement than Dunfermline's High Street has seen since
1968 when the local football team, nicknamed the Pars (short for Paralytics),
last won the Scottish Cup.

Mr Cameron was mobbed in a way Tory leaders aren't used to in Scotland. Margaret
Thatcher rarely ventured out of doors in this neck of the woods but the
Cameronian message, although not universally accepted, managed to get through
the huge media scrum to a few somewhat bewildered voters.

Adding significantly to the frenzied atmosphere was the fact that Charles
Kennedy, the former Liberal Democrat leader, turned up with his whooping,
shrieking entourage just as Mr Cameron's convoy of people carriers was heading
out of town.

Meanwhile at the other end of the High Street, the Chancellor - unmobbed by
either media or voters - popped into a local cafe for a cup of tea with
Catherine Stihler, the Labour candidate.

Although Labour is defending a majority of more than 11,500, there has been a
nervousness in the Labour camp that is giving all the other parties cause for
hope.

Early yesterday Mr Brown, emphasising his continual theme of "jobs and
prosperity'', announced 40 new jobs in a local engineering firm but it was still
Mr Cameron who grabbed the bulk of the attention.

It is true that Tory hopes do not extend to them winning next Thursday - they
were a poor fourth last May - but Mr Cameron expressed confidence that he would
dramatically increase his party's share of the vote.

Asked whether twisting the Chancellor's tail in his own backyard added a bit of
spice to the campaign, Mr Cameron smiled and said: "The thought never crossed my
mind.''

Assisting him is a candidate he might have invented, so accurately does she fit
the description of the ideal candidate in the New Model Conservative Party.

Carrie Ruxton is an attractive, thirtysomething single mother, who works as a
self-employed nutritionist and dietician.

Her selection has so annoyed some local Tories that one councillor resigned from
the party and other activists have refused to work for her. One naval veteran -
the Rosyth base is in the constituency - suggested that both she and Mr Cameron
might be wasting their time. "People vote Labour here,'' said Benjamin Cairns,
73. "Fathers vote Labour, then their sons vote Labour. It's ingrained.''

But it is the votes of the second-placed Lib Dems that the Tories are after,
which probably explains why Mr Kennedy made his first public appearance since
his resignation last month. Although he brought a rent-a-crowd of supporters
with him, there is no doubt that the ex-leader is still an attraction.

Asked if Sir "Ming'' Campbell, who represents a neighbouring Fife seat and who
is the favourite in the Lib Dem leadership race, had "blood on his hands'' over
his forced resignation, Mr Kennedy merely smiled and commented: "I don't know
what you're talking about.''

While the other three parties were attracting all the attention yesterday, the
Scottish National Party said that it was its candidate, Douglas Chapman, who was
poised to win the seat.

This feels like a proper by-election but Labour's opponents still have it all to
do.

GENERAL ELECTION

Labour 20,111;Lib Dems 8,549; SNP 8,026; Con 4,376; SSP 689; Ukip 643

acochrane@telegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 3, 2006 Friday

Euro constitution did not address needs of citizens, Blair admits

BYLINE: George Jones Political Editor and David Rennie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 557 words


TONY BLAIR criticised the European constitution yesterday, only months after
"wholeheartedly'' recommending it to the British people at the general election.

In a moment of candour looking back on his eight years as Prime Minister, Mr
Blair effectively disowned the treaty which he signed up to along with other
European Union leaders, claiming that it failed to address the concerns of
European citizens.

In his first speech on Europe since concluding a bruising six-month presidency
of the EU in December, Mr Blair said the drive for more institutional
integration had become "almost self-perpetuating and certainly self-absorbing''.

He said that on both the single currency - which Britain did not join - and the
constitution, which was effectively killed off by voters in France and the
Netherlands last year, the EU had put a "political decision'' before getting the
economics right.

Mr Blair said the "drawback'' to the constitution was that, apart from better
rules of internal governance, no one knew what it was meant to solve. "As the
problems of the citizen grew ever more pressing, instead of bold policy reform
and decisive change, we locked ourselves in a room at the top of the tower and
debated things no ordinary citizen could understand.''

Mr Blair acknowledged there had been a growing mood among European people "that
Europe, unable to solve its actual problems, took to solving imaginary ones; by
regulation no one wanted, implemented in ways everyone hated''.

The tone of his speech at St Antony's College, Oxford, was markedly different
from when he agreed to the constitution in June 2004. He said then it was a
success for Britain and a success for Europe .

The constitution, which contained a charter of fundamental rights and a detailed
catalogue of how the EU should conduct a wide range of internal and foreign
policy, became an issue at the general election.

When the Tories argued that the constitution was bad for democracy and jobs, Mr
Blair said Michael Howard, their then leader, was "gutless'' and accused him of
pandering to the UK Independence Party.

The Tories said they would urge people to reject it in a referendum, but
Labour's manifesto argued strongly that it was good for Britain and the new
Europe.

"We will put it to the British people in a referendum and campaign
wholeheartedly for a Yes vote,'' Labour's manifesto stated.

Mr Blair admitted that his change of heart came when voters of France and the
Netherlands rejected the treaty, saving him from having to hold a referendum in
Britain, which he might well have lost.

He recalled that on the evening of the French result, he was in Italy with
friends, and someone asked what was "wrong'' with those who voted No. "I said:
'I'm afraid the question is: What's wrong with us?', meaning 'us' the collective
political leadership of Europe.''

Mr Blair, who originally wanted to take Britain into the euro, indicated that he
now shared the view of Gordon Brown, the Chancellor, that membership remained a
long way off. He said that "ultimately'', the single currency would be to
Europe's and Britain's benefit but he suggested it had been introduced
prematurely by other EU countries as a result of a political decision by France
and Germany.

"A timetable imposed and the economics made to fit. In time this will sort
itself out, but it will take time,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            February 3, 2006 Friday

Coming next on EUTV2, it's Little England

BYLINE: RICHARD LITTLEJOHN

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1179 words


IN A major speech yesterday, Tony Blair lamented the failure of politicians to
persuade voters of the glories of the European Union.

Now it is revealed Brussels wants to set up its own satellite television service
because it doesn't like the way the EU is portrayed, especially in Britain.

Quite why Eurocrats think a new TV station is necessary when they already have
the BBC and Channel 4 News is beyond me. So what can we expect from EUTV?

This column takes you through a typical day's schedule.

EUTV 1 Live from Sangatte.

6.00 GMTV Daily breakfast show for farmers, produced by the European
Agricultural Commission and dedicated to extolling the virtues of Genetically
Modified Crops.

9.30 RELOCATION, RELOCATION Kirstie and Phil join Peter and Reinaldo as they
swop their Notting Hill flat and Hartlepool terrace for a swanky townhouse in
the ritzy Rue des Jeunes GarAons, in Brussels.

10.15 BARGAIN HUNT Today's programme follows French and German utility bosses as
they buy up British water and electricity companies for a song.

12.00 WORKING LUNCH A fly-on-the-wall documentary series which spotlights a
group of MEPs as they trough their way through some of the finest
Michelinstarred restaurants in Brussels and Strasbourg.

1.00 TEA WITH MUSSOLINI (2006) Feature film about a young, heartthrob
Conservative leader who is seduced by an Italian temptress with a dark family
history. Stars Isabella Rossellini as Alessandra Mussolini and David Cameron as
himself.

3.15 BRITAIN'S BEST BACK GARDENS John Prescott at the wheel as thousands of back
gardens in the south of England are bulldozed and replaced by hideous blocks of
flats in line with EU planning directives.

4.15 DEAL OR NO DEAL Popular family game show in which contestants compete to
see who can negotiate away Britain's rebate to Brussels in exchange for nothing
in return.

Introduced by Tony Blair.

5.00 READY, STEADY, COOK Ainsley Harriott's kitchen is raided by health and
safety inspectors enforcing new Brussels hygiene regulations, with hilarious
consequences.

6.00 BBC NEWS Another chance to see the special report on why opponents of the
EU Constitution are all foam-flecked, racist, xenophobic, homophobic, BNP
child-molesters.

7.00 WISH YOU WERE HERE Judith Chalmers talks to visitors from all over the
world who have taken advantage of Europe's open borders and are planning to
settle in Britain.

8.00 RICK STEIN'S FRUITS OF THE SEA Rick's Padstow restaurant is forced into
receivership as a result of the Government's latest concessions under the Common
Fisheries Policy.

Rick gets smashed on extrastrength scrumpy as the few remaining fishing boats in
Padstow are put to the torch.

Last in series.

9.00 TWO METRES UNDER Remake of the award-winning American series about a family
firm of funeral directors. Tonight the brothers conduct a traditional open-air
Hindu cremation ceremony on Hackney Marshes, following a successful legal
challenge under Section 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights.

10.15 WHAT THE SICILIANS DID FOR US Adam Hart-Davis cycles round Italy
explaining how the Mafia has managed to defraud EU taxpayers out of hundreds of
millions of euros through an elaborate subsidy swindle involving non-existent
olive groves.

10.45 THEY FLEW TO BULGARIA (2005) Made-for-EUTV update of the 1947 original,
They Flew To Bruges, which starred David Niven as WWII ace Wing Commander Binky
Beaumont.

In this new version, Al Qaeda suspects are spirited away to secret locations
under a process known as extraordinary rendition, hotly pursued by legally-aided
lawyers from The Hague. Stars Adolf Hitler as George W. Bush.

5.30 THE MONEY PROGRAMME

EUTV 2

7.00 CHEESE-EATING SURRENDER MONKEYS Delightful Frenchmade children's series
about a group of spineless puppets who have discovered they have the power to
turn food into oil. Your puppet-master is Saddam Hussein.

7.30 TELETUBBIES Tinky-Winky, Dipsy, La-La and Po and their genetically-modified
rabbit wake up to find their hillside is covered with giant windmills under the
EU's sustainable energy policy.

8.00 A PLACE IN THE SUN Jonnie and Jasmine fly to Greece where generous
subsidies to local tobacco farmers are fuelling a booming market in second homes
and Ferraris.

9.00 PAY OFF YOUR MORTGAGE IN TWO YEARS Neil and Glenys Kinnock explain how
anyone can quickly pay off their outstanding debts by getting their entire
family on the payroll of the European Commission.

10.00 WHO WANTS TO BE A MILLIONAIRE? New daytime slot for the
phenomenally-successful game show, in which Chris Patten invites French peasant
farmers to become rich beyond their wildest dreams, simply by phoning a friend
in Brussels.

11.00 AN INSPECTOR CALLS (2005) EU-funded feature film following a group of
inspectors from Britain's Office of the Deputy Prime Minister as they raid
suburban homes in search of Jacuzzis, loft conversions, window boxes, patios and
mixer taps which have not been declared to the authorities for the purposes of
taxation. Stars John Prescott as Reinhard Heydrich.

1.15 HOME AND AWAY How MEPs juggle a wife in Britain and a mistress in Brussels.
Nigel Farage, of the UK Independence Party, has been having an affair with a
half-German, half-Swedish blonde EU researcher called Liga.

Worth watching for the nail-biting scene in which Mrs Farage discovers Liga's
phone number on Nigel's mobile and decides to call her.

2.00 ON THE FIDDLE Undercover report into the millions of euros lost through
creative expense accounting by MEPs.

3.30 YOU'VE BEEN FRAMED David Blunkett and his dog Sadie introduce this exciting
new show in which perfectly innocent, law-abiding British citizens, who have
committed no crime under domestic law, are arrested and whisked off abroad to be
sent to prison for life by publicityseeking foreign magistrates under the new
European Arrest Warrant.

4.30 THE WEAKEST LINK Cruel game show in which Tony Blair is berated by a panel
of EU politicians for his abject failure to con the British people into
accepting the euro.

5.30 THE MONEY PROGRAMME An investigation into why the auditors have refused to
sign off on the EU's accounts for the seventh year running. (rpt) 6.30 BIG
BROTHER Davina McCall introduces the show from the headquarters of Galileo, the
expensive new EU satellite system set up to spy on every single one of Europe's
730 million people.

7.30 LIFE ON MARS New timetravel drama in which a traditional British politician
falls asleep and wakes up in Brussels at the headquarters of the EU, where he is
horrified by the bullying and corruption and the contempt his new colleagues
have for the people who pay their wages.

9.00 LITTLE ENGLAND Award-winning comedy follow-up to Little Britain, from Matt
Lucas and David Walliams.

New characters include Maggie Handbag (catchphrase 'no, but, no, but, no') and
gay Tory MP Sir Jasper Dandruff (the only Eurosceptic in the Valleys).

Peter Mandelson guest stars as Sebastian.

10.00 WHAT THE PAPERS SAY Exclusive video footage of a Danish newspaper editor
being beheaded for publishing a cartoon of the Prophet Mohammed.

10.15 CLOSEDOWN (due to new European Working Time Directive).

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                February 2, 2006

Cameron given blunt warning over MEPs

LENGTH: 1075 words



HIGHLIGHT: An unlikely alliance of the frontrunner in next year's French
presidential election and Britain's most prominent opponent of the EU are
putting pressure on David Cameron to abandon plans to sever Tory links with
Europe's main centre right parties.


An unlikely alliance of the frontrunner in next year's French presidential
election and Britain's most prominent opponent of the EU are putting pressure on
David Cameron to abandon plans to sever Tory links with Europe's main centre
right parties.

As Tony Blair prepares to hail Europe's "new generation of leaders" in a speech
this afternoon, one of the young stars in his sights is reported to have issued
a blunt warning to Mr Cameron to think again.

"You are a weak man," the French interior minister and presidential hopeful
Nicolas Sarkozy is reported to have told Mr Cameron when they met in Paris last
month.

Other leaders have let it be known to Mr Cameron that he will forfeit the
Tories' informal contacts with European parties in the centre-right "family" if
he goes ahead with plans to leave the centre right EPP-ED grouping in the
European Parliament.

The disclosure by Guardian Unlimited of Mr Sarkozy's reported remarks comes days
after William Hague, the shadow foreign secretary, vowed in Brussels to broker
an amicable divorce from the EPP-ED which also includes the CDU party led by the
new German chancellor, Angela Merkel. Mr Hague said he would take "months not
weeks" to carry out Mr Cameron's leadership election pledge - which is opposed
by more than half of the Tories' 27 MEPs - on the grounds that the centre-right
group is dominated by fierce pro-Europeans.

Mr Sarkozy is understood to believe that Mr Cameron showed signs of weakness by
caving into pressure from hardline Eurosceptics during the Tory leadership
election campaign. In a sign of the bitter Tory internal feud over the issue, Mr
Sarkozy was told that Mr Cameron fell victim to a campaign orchestrated by the
arch Eurosceptic MEP Dan Hannan who has been agitating for years for the party
to leave the EPP-ED group. Mr Sarkozy was told that Mr Hannan and his allies at
Westminster spoke to newly elected Tory MPs to challenge Mr Cameron over the
Tories' membership of the EPP-ED at the leadership hustings.

A spokesman for Mr Cameron today denied that Mr Sarkozy's had accused Mr Cameron
of being weak. "Nicolas Sarkozy did not say that he thought David Cameron was
weak. It was a constructive and good-natured meeting at which Nicolas Sarkozy
said he understood our position, though he disagreed with it. Nicolas Sarkozy
congratulated David [on winning the Tory leadership] and said he had made a good
start."

The reported intervention by Mr Sarkozy shows that Mr Cameron's pledge is
proving more complicated than the new Tory leader had expected. Tory opponents
of the plan believe that Mr Cameron thought he could force through the change
because there is so little interest in Britain in the European parliament. Since
then two factors have come into play:

Mr Cameron and other senior Tories are having to come to terms with the fact
that they will lose informal contacts with the governing parties in France and
Germany - continental Europe's two most important countries; The rules of the
European parliament, which means the Tories need to join forces with MEPs from
at least four other countries if they are to avoid total isolation, are forcing
the Tories to open negotiations with sexist and homophobic parties.

Mr Cameron today receives a warning from an unlikely quarter that he will betray
the national interest if he abandons the EPP and downgrades links with France
and Germany's governing parties. Nigel Farage, the leader of the United Kingdom
Independence party in the European parliament, which wants to withdraw from the
EU, told Guardian Unlimited: "While I don't want Britain to be in the EU - and
believe that one day we won't - if the Conservatives were to form the next
government they would probably serve the national interest better by being part
of the family of European governments rather than being on the fringes. If we
are going to stay in the EU it would be better to have a government that was in
negotiations with other governments in Europe rather than one that has
distinctly frosty relations."

Mr Farage also believes that Mr Cameron is inflicting unnecessary political
damage on the Tories by negotiating to form a new grouping with Poland's
governing Law and Justice Party, which opposes gay pride marches. Graham Brady,
the shadow Europe minister, has also spoken to the Dutch MEP Johannes Blokland
,whose Christian Union includes the conservative Calvinist party, which bans
women from representing it in parliament.

Mr Farage said: "The opinion polls are indicating that the Conservatives are a
potential party of government. In the EPP they are banded together with other
parties of government. If they leave the EPP and form their own group they will
have to form a group with parties whose political culture will provide a huge
embarrassment to David Cameron back home. Poland's Law and Justice Party's
stance on abortion and homosexuality will provide Mr Cameron with the hugest
embarrassments back home."

Mr Farage, who is deputy leader of the 37-strong Ind-Dem group, which has MEPs
from 10 countries, draws a distinction between his decision to sit with such
politicians and the Tories.

"In the European parliament we have a completely mixed picture in terms of
political culture - to the extent that one culture would often be very
embarrassed by another. That does not matter to us very much. Our role has been
to link arms with other campaigning groups simply to oppose the constitution. We
draw a line at the racist right, so we reject Vlams Blok, the Front National,
Haider's Freedom party. But after that we are very happy to link arms with a
Polish party that is more Catholic than the Pope, a Dutch Calvinist party which
certainly disapproves of some of my social habits and a Danish movement led by
the country's former Communist party leader. That provides us with no
embarrassment because we are linking arms to fight the [EU] constitution and
further integration. However we are not a potential party of government - not in
the short term anyway. The Conservative position is very different."

The Tories were unmoved by the threat by some EPP leaders to downgrade informal
links with the Tories which was made at the centre right "family" meeting in
Brussels in December. A spokesman for Mr Cameron, who missed the meeting because
he was on a trip to Northern Ireland, said: "We do not take that threat
seriously. It is an ill-advised threat. Once we have done this members of the
EPP will be constructive."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               23 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           February 1, 2006 Wednesday

Government interference with police collaboration

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 172 words


SIR - I was appalled to read that Mark Wallace had his details recorded under
the Terrorism Act 2000 for a lawful and peaceful activity in collecting
signatures for an anti-ID card petition.

What are these details being collected for? If the Government one day invokes
the Civil Contingencies Act 2004, whereby all law back to Magna Carta can be
suspended, will these people be rounded up as dissidents?

This may sound far-fetched, but not as far-fetched as the fact that certain
police officers operating in Britain have complete immunity from prosecution.
Officers of Europol, the embryonic European police force, have complete immunity
for anything that they may do or say in the course of their duties.

I have twice written to Sir Ian Blair, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner,
asking him on what basis Europol officers will operate in London, given that
immunity from prosecution is an alien concept under English law. So far, the
only answer I have received is that the matter is being looked into.

Gerard Batten MEP (UKIP)

London E7

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
