
                               1 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                          September 27, 2006 Wednesday

Moral crisis;
LETTERS

SECTION: ED SC1; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 93 words


THIS country is experiencing nothing less than a moral collapse.

Unless we embark upon moral rearmament, our legal system, policing, education,
sexual mores, arts and media will sink to gutter level.

It is doubtful if our hedonistic youth will rise to the cause of salvation, and
while Alan MacNamara might find solace in the single-issue UKIP, I recently had
a look at the manifesto of the British National Party - with its comprehensive
overview of our national crisis - and I was forced to wonder why it receives
such a bad press.

ALASTAIR HARPER, Dunfermline.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                          September 27, 2006 Wednesday

See you all in January

BYLINE: Michael Lea, Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 340  words


Romania, Bulgaria get date to join EU

HORDES of Romanians queued for passports yesterday after the country got the the
go-ahead to join the EU in January.

The decision fired the starting gun for a fresh rush of Eastern European
migrants to Britain.

Both Romania and Bulgaria -with a total population of 30million -were let in
despite fears of corruption and organised crime.

Britain's public services are already under pressure from 392,000 immigrants,
mainly Poles, who have arrived since the EUexpanded in 2004.

Officials expected just 13,000 to come each year.

Now up to 140,000 Romanians and Bulgarians are preparing to head here from
January 1.

They will be given the right to travel to, and work in, the other 25 EU
countries -in the face of warnings that Brits are losing their jobs to cheaper
foreigners driving down wages.

Britain has said it will curb the numbers legally allowed in to work -but
details will not be revealed until October. A Downing Street statement said:
"Approach to labour market access for Romania and Bulgaria will be gradual."

But the Government is powerless to stop Romanians and Bulgarians settling here
and working illegally.

The Tories called for quotas to be set immediately. Shadow Home Secretary David
Davis said: "The Government needs to learn the lesson of the last wave of
immigration." The European Commission rubber-stamped Romania and Bulgaria's EU
admission yesterday despite a critical report.

It highlighted concerns over crime, corruption, criminal justice, food safety
and whether EU cash will be properly spent.

There are also fears in Britain that criminal warlords will shift their
operations to the UK. Bulgarian PM Sergei Stanishev welcomed the announcement
and declared: "This is the genuine and final fall of the Berlin Wall for
Bulgaria."

But UKIP leader Nigel Farage called it an "unsustainable leap into the dark".

The Sun revealed last month that a memo to Tony Blair showed daily pay for
builders in Southampton had halved from £ 120 to £ 60 -causing "increasing
hostility".

m.lea@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           September 26, 2006 Tuesday

Euro satellite is Pounds 268m off course

BYLINE: JUSTIN STARES

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 171 words


EUROPE'S Gallileo satellite system is more than a quarter of a billion pounds
over budget and will not be in operation for another four years at least,
Brussels admitted yesterday.

Gallileo, which was designed to rival the U.S. communication systems, has picked
up ' unforeseen' costs, mostly concerned with security, said transport
commissioner Jacques Barrot.

Eventually it will operate as a sophisticated version of the GPS or satnav
systems currently guiding millions of cars all over Britain. It will be
incorporated into mobile phones, allowing emergency services to pinpoint 999
callers and could also be used to co-ordinate troops, warships and warplanes.

A fleet of 30 satellites orbiting 14,000 miles above the Earth will complete the
circuit. But some MEPs have questioned whether Brussels needs a satellite system
at all.

'This is the Common Agricultural Policy of outer space,' said UK Independence
Party MEP Gerard Batten.

'Instead of ploughing billions of euros into the ground they are now going to
put them into orbit.'

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           September 26, 2006 Tuesday

Galileo spiralling out of control as EU counts cost of E400m hike

BYLINE: JUSTIN STARES

SECTION: ED IRE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 412 words


THE EU's 'star wars' satellite system is already millions of euro over budget
and will not be ready for at least another four years.

Galileo, the Brussels -inspired system designed to challenge American
superiority in outer space, has picked up 'unforeseen' costs of more than
E400million, the European Commission said yesterday.

The admission led to claims that the project was turning into the 'Common
Agricultural Policy in space', with taxpayer funding spiralling out of control.

The size of the overrun was revealed by EU transportcommissioner Jacques Barrot
in response to a parliamentary question.

'The cost of the initial development and deployment phase of the Galileo
programme will be E400million above the amount originally foreseen,' Mr Barrot
said. 'The main reason for this increase is of a technical nature.'

The EU had been 'obliged' to build two test satellites which it had not planned
to 'guarantee frequencies', he said. The Americans, who have never been keen on
the EU developing a rival to own satellite system, have also insisted on new
security upgrades to prevent Galileo from falling into the wrong hands.

'New security specifications resulting both from work under taken for the
security of Galileo and from discussions undertaken with the U.S. led to the
development of more elaborate and more costly equipment than initially
foreseen,' Mr Barrot said.

Galileo is scheduled to go live in 2010, but the French commissioner has already
hinted this date could be pushed back.

It has been designed as a satellite navigation system but it can be upgraded for
military use. The system could in future be incorporated into mobile phones,
allowing emergency services to immediately pinpoint anyone making a 999 call.

It could also be used to coordinate troops, warships and attack aircraft.

Europe's rival to America's Global Positioning System (GPS) will eventually
involve a fleet of 30 satellites orbiting 14,000 miles above the Earth. But some
have questioned whether Brussels needs a satellite system at all.

'This is the Common Agricultural Policy of outer space,' said Gerard Batten, MEP
for the UK Independence Party.

'Instead of ploughing billions of euros into the ground they are now going to
put them into orbit.

It is also totally unnecessary because GPS works fine for everybody. This is
just Brussels wanting to develop its own military system over the long run.'
Galileo is scheduled to cost around E3.87billion in its initial 'development'
phase.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           September 25, 2006 Monday

Voters cannot see Chancellor as the man to revive Labour Analysis

BYLINE: Anthony King

SECTION: NEWS; Labour in Manchester; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1095 words


MERELY replacing Tony Blair with Gordon Brown looks less and less likely to give
Labour's electoral prospects a significant fillip, YouGov's regular monthly
survey for The Daily Telegraph shows. The Government needs a new sense of
direction far more than it needs a new face.

Some incoming prime ministers do succeed in breathing life into ailing
administrations but few voters appear to think Mr Brown is the man to provide
Labour with mouth-to-mouth resuscitation.

His personal reputation as both Chancellor and prospective prime minister
continues to decline.

Moreover, as both Blairites and Brownites have long feared, the infighting of
recent weeks has inflicted terrible damage on the Labour Party's collective
reputation.

Sixty-six per cent of people in YouGov's sample think Labour is "in a state of
civil war'' and only a minuscule seven per cent - one of the lowest figures ever
recorded for any party - think the party is "united at the present time''.

The Chancellor looks more like being part of Labour's problems than a potential
solution.

As the figures in the chart show, whereas earlier this year 36 per cent of
voters thought Mr Brown would "prove a good prime minister'', that figure has
dropped to 27 per cent.

The proportion thinking he would probably fail as prime minister has
correspondingly risen from 33 per cent to 44 per cent.

Mr Brown has even lost ground to Mr Blair. As the chart also shows, six months
ago a slim majority of voters said they would prefer to see Mr Brown residing at
No 10, but now Mr Blair is preferred by 32 per cent to 27 per cent.

The proportion who think Mr Brown is doing a better job as Chancellor than Mr
Blair is as Prime Minister has also fallen.

At least as telling is the comparison voters make between the two Labour leaders
and the Conservative Party's David Cameron.

If voters are asked who would make the better prime minister, Mr Cameron or Mr
Blair, the two men run more or less neck and neck but, if they are asked to
choose between Mr Cameron and Mr Brown, the Tory leader enjoys a five-point
advantage.

It is also instructive to compare the way Mr Brown is seen today with the way Mr
Blair was seen on the eve of his election as Labour leader more than a decade
ago.

Mr Blair's image then was overwhelmingly - indeed spectacularly - favourable.
The chart shows he was held in high esteem on every count.

The contrast with Mr Brown today could hardly be more marked. To be sure, as the
figures show, today's heir apparent is seen as decisive, competent and
effective. He is widely respected and relatively few voters doubt that he is a
man of real ability.

But Mr Brown is also seen as a highly divisive and partisan figure and as
something less than a charmer. There are even doubts about his commitment to
traditional Labour values. More people think he is "uncaring'' (34 per cent)
than think he is "caring'' (28 per cent).

Fifty per cent or more of YouGov's sample regard Mr Brown as being "competent''
and "decisive'' but they also regard him as being both "unable to unite the
nation'' and "concerned only for himself and his party''. They also regard him
as being, in personal terms, "morose and introverted''.

Voters before 1997 warmed to Mr Blair and thought he showed great promise. There
are no such feelings about Mr Brown today.

But for all Labour's difficulties, the Conservatives can hardly be said to be in
robust health. Even under Mr Cameron, they have not broken through the 40 per
cent barrier in any survey YouGov has conducted for The Daily Telegraph since
last year's general election.

Despite the renewed outbreak of the Blair-Brown civil war within the Labour
Party, the Tories are no further ahead than they were a month ago.

On 38 per cent, the Conservatives lead Labour by seven points, with the Liberal
Democrats trailing on 18 points and the various smaller parties on 13.

But those figures are identical to the ones YouGov reported at the end of
August. Nothing has changed. Politicians squabble. The electorate as a whole
remains unmoved. Two aspects of YouGov's data are almost certainly of long-term
significance. One is the large number of people who respond "Don't know'' even
to the most straightforward and simple-sounding of YouGov's questions.

In the case of the battery of questions about Mr Brown, the proportion of "Don't
knows'' ranged from 19 per cent to 51 per cent, the average being 31 per cent.

Some of these percentages can be put down to genuine ignorance - Mr Brown is
still a remote figure to many - but for the past three months more than 40 per
cent of people have also replied "Don't know'' to YouGov's standard tracking
question about who would make the best prime minister. The present figure, shown
in the chart, is 41 per cent. Such a high figure certainly represents a
compound. One part consists of people who know something about each of the main
party leaders and genuinely cannot choose between them.

But the other part consists either of people who know nothing about any of them
or else do know something about them but find all of them equally unimpressive.

In other words, "Don't know'' should often be understood as meaning "To Hell
with the lot of you''.

If findings like these should worry the whole political class, another aspect of
YouGov's data should worry Conservatives especially and may even offer Labour
supporters a little comfort. According to YouGov, Labour support among the
electorate has fallen by five percentage points since the 2005 election and
Liberal Democrat support has also fallen by five points - a combined loss of 10
percentage points.

On the face of it, the Tories should have gained most of those 10 points. But
they have not done so.

As the figures in the chart indicate, the Conservatives have gained five of them
but the various minor parties have gained the other five. The opposition to the
Labour Government is thus fragmenting instead of consolidating.

No fewer than 13 per cent of YouGov's respondents say that they would vote for
some party other than one of the main three at an early general election. Three
per cent would back either the SNP or Plaid Cymru, four per cent Ukip, three per
cent the BNP and two per cent the Greens.

These assorted small parties have, between them, had the support of 10 per cent
or more of the electorate since the spring of this year.

The unpopularity of the Government is clearly not being translated in any
straightforward way into support for the official Opposition. It is the
unofficial opposition that is gaining in strength.

Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           September 25, 2006 Monday

letters

SECTION: ED SC1; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 956 words


Jailhouse shock No sporting chance Liberals payhigh price It's so fruitydown
south Glad to be labelled gay Cameron's a mistake Abetter life in prison SURELY
the latest plans for Scottish prisons are the limit.

The Government is planning to make it legal for prisoners to be handed
drug-taking kits, complete with needles.

But what is so disastrously wrong with the incoming security at prisons that
drugs are obtainable by prisoners? Surely it would be in the long- term
interests of the prisoners to be devoid of drugs.

This impending policy has been preceded by the costs to the taxpayer for the
termination of ' slopping out' by the prisoners, which results in significant
modifications to the cells.

In addition, there have been guidelines from the Chief Inspector of Prisons that
inmates be treated and addressed with respect. Who said the UK Government was
going to be 'tough on crime'? If it is not too late, send for Sheriff Joe Arpaio
of Arizona to sort out this fiasco.

HARRY LAWRIE, Kirkcaldy.

IT WAS disappointing to read Joan Bakewell resurrect that old argument, Men
verses Women (Femail), and then pronounce women as superior. We all know both
sexes have their particular strengths and even within each sex there is
considerable variation.

Where Joan Bakewell really stretches credibility is in implying that in the not
too distant future men and women will compete against each other in sport.

Sorry to disappoint, Joan, but biological differences are just too great to make
such competition meaningful. In all sports, without exception, the gulf is vast
and this is one of the main reasons that financial rewards for success will tend
to favour men. Back to the drawing board, Joan.

KEN MORRISION, Hamilton, Mid Lothian.

ONCE again we see the PC brigade within the Scottish Parliament pursuing their
own agenda by supporting the Adoption And Children (Scotland) Bill, although the
majority of Scots disapprove.

As with the repeal of Section 28, these people treat the Scottish electorate
with utter contempt.

If there is not a dramatic U-turn of the policies of the inept members of the
Scottish Parliament, then this great country will no longer hold any respect
within the international community.

WILLIAM STARK, Edinburgh.

I WAS delighted to read Julie Wermig-Morgan's praise of the elderberry
(Letters). I have been making elderberry juice and extolling its virtues for
many years.

It is a laborious job and I always say 'never again' but, of course, I always
do. I use it in all sorts of ways: adding it to red wine, making jelly by adding
it to gelatine etc.

If one makes a preservative jelly, it keeps in the jar without developing mould
and never loses colour or taste. It also freezes well. This year, however, my
bushes have little or no berries because of a wet, cold spring, though my
daughter, who has just come back from a holiday in Oxfordshire, tells me the
hedgerows are covered in them, plus sloes, damsons, apples and other goodies
which we never even see to buy up here.

'Oh, to be in England now that autumn's here!' J. A. GILBERT, Strathcarron,
Ross-shire.

I AM a gay person but not a homosexual. Homosexuals are no longer persecuted and
prosecuted by the law. The state has finally limped into the 21st century by
legalising samesex partnerships and recognising homosexuals are no threat to
anyone.

This is cool. There is no shame or guilt attached to this lifestyle any more. It
was necessary in the past for the use of a metaphor because homosexuality was a
crime.

In these enlightened times, I wonder if our homosexual friends, now they are
free, would agree to return the word 'gay' to its original usage and meaning?

IT SADDENS me to say this but, at elections, I will not be voting Conservative.
I have voted Tory since I was old enough, and I am now 77.

However, after David Cameron was elected leader I have had to decide whether
'blind loyalty' should win over principle.

I voted for David Davis in the leadership election because I believed the party,
and the country, needed a strong, experienced Tory leader. I believe that many
of our members now feel, as I do, Cameron is a mistake. There is no doubt that
we are destroying our planet and that measures must be taken to halt this, but
to make the environment our central policy is madness. The public I. QUINN,
Glasgow.

is also concerned about green issues, but I believe the majority think that
before we tackle this issue, there is an awful mess left by New Labour, that a
Tory government must address.

I believe he will be elected, but it will be by default. By this I mean that it
will not be a case of voting for the Conservatives, more a case of voting
against New Labour.

He is another Blair, with the same ego, only Cameron is 'dressed' in blue (or
should that be green) as opposed to red. As there is no way I could vote for
Labour, Liberal or SNP, the only party left to vote for may well be UKIP.

ALAN McNAMARA, Glasgow.

I HAVE spent some time reading over the new treatment of those in prison. To be
called Mr, Mrs or Miss, to be given dignity, etc.

I have grown up respecting people and in a profession that always practised
this. Until the past few years if I went to the doctor's surgery, I was 'Mrs
Jean Woods'.

Now when I attend I give my name to a receptionist, who sits behind a glass
counter with a computer and a telephone. When it is my turn she calls 'Jeanie
Woods' and tells me which door to go to.

On several occasions I have complained about this. Nurses tell me it is
'friendly' and makes all people feel the same. I could not agree and I would not
call a nurse or doctor by a first name.

If I were in prison, I would be 'Mrs Jean Woods' so, are prisoners of greater
importance than lawabiding citizens?

Mrs JEAN M. WOODS, Wishaw, Lanarkshire.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 24, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Britain 'to be stripped of right to issue visas'

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Julia Hartley-Brewer POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; 8

LENGTH: 410  words


BRUSSELS bureaucrats are secretly planning to create a Europe-wide visa for
immigrants.

The Sunday Express can reveal that the proposals, if adopted, would take
immigration powers from Britain and other national governments and hand them to
unelected officials.

The revelation comes after European Union home affairs ministers met in Finland
last week to discuss removing the national veto on all criminal justice, border
and immigration issues.

Now a leak of a draft proposal at the European Commission - the EU's executive
body - reveals plans for a single work and residence visa to be used by all
immigrants.

The permits, which will contain biometric data on the holders, will guarantee a
"common framework of rights for all third-country nationals in legal
employment".

The permits would be issued by the Visa Information System, which will be
controlled by the EU.

The British Government would have no right to deport undesirables without
referring to a planned EU directive outlining common standards and procedures on
deportations.

The proposals are contained in a 41page draft document, seen by the Sunday
Express, on measures to combat illegal immigration. Although the document has
yet to be published, the issue of deporting illegal immigrants is already being
debated in the European Parliament.

The latest evidence of a concerted EU move to take issues of criminal justice
and immigration out of the hands of national governments comes as the European
Commission is set to announce its recommendations for Romania and Bulgaria to
join the EU.

Officials are expected to recommend on Tuesday that both countries should be
allowed to join on January 1 next year as planned, although the Council of
Ministers will not have to make a final decision until later this year.

Many member states fear the arrival of the impoverished former eastern bloc
countries will see hundreds of thousands of Romanians and Bulgarians flooding
west for work.

Last week Home Secretary John Reid indicated that Britain would impose measures
to prevent a mass influx of workers from the two states.

But UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "Forget any assurances that
John Reid gives about getting a grip on immigration.

"This leaked document proves the new Immigration Commissioner will soon be in
control of all our immigration policy.

"They will even be able to decide who comes and works in our country and how and
when we can deport people, even if they are not from the EU."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                         September 20, 2006, Wednesday

Keep control

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 200 words


Sir, On Friday John Reid will attend a meeting of his fellow EU home affairs and
justice ministers. They will be asked to vote on proposals to remove the veto on
issues currently under national control, including criminal law, criminal
penalties and the judicial system.

Without a veto on these matters, Parliament and the British Government would
cease to have control of the fight against crime within our own borders. Worse,
the road would be open for the standardisation of the legal system, which would
threaten habeas corpus, trial by jury and a host of protections guaranteed in
British law but mostly absent on the Continent.

Unanimity is required in order to pass these proposals. For the good of
democracy and freedom under the law, it is crucial that the Home Secretary
exercises his vote against them.

SYED KAMALL, MEP (C); JIM ALLISTER, MEP (DUP); NIGEL FARAGE, MEP (UKIP);
GEOFFREY COX, QC, MP (C); MARTIN CALLANAN, MEP (C); ROGER HELMER, MEP (C);
DANIEL HANNAN, MEP (C); DOUGLAS CARSWELL, MP (C); DAVID DAVIES, MP (C); PHILIP
DAVIES, MP (C); DAVID GAUKE, MP (C); PHILIP HOLLOBONE, MP (C); RICHARD SHEPHERD,
MP (C); BOB SPINK, MP (C); SIR NICHOLAS WINTERTON, MP (C); ANN WINTERTON, MP
(C).

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                          September 16, 2006 Saturday

Britain - Labour relieved to hang on in by-election

LENGTH: 162 words


The Labour Party was relieved on Friday, amid its leadership woes, to hold on to
the only council seat it was defending in this week's by-elections.

It won by 96 votes at Ynyscedwyn, Powys County, mid-Wales, in a ward where it
was unopposed at the last main polls in 2003.

But its vote share tumbled at West Sussex County Council's Southwick division,
where it had finished a fairly strong second in May last year, on the same day
as the general election.

The only seat change was at North Duffield, Selby District, North Yorkshire,
which was won by Conservative William Inness. The ward had previously been
independent.

Results:

Powys County, Ynyscedwyn: Lab 451, Lib Dem 355. (May 2003 - Lab unopposed.) Lab
hold.

Selby District, North Duffield: C 316, Lab 84. (May 2003 - Ind unopposed.) C
gain from Ind.

West Sussex County, Southwick: C 907, Lab 316, Lib Dem 314, Green 96. (May 2005
- C 1,966, Lab 1,423, Lib Dem 959, Ukip 317, Green 243.) C hold. Swing 12.5 per
cent Lab to C.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               September 15, 2006

Welsh council victory for Labour

LENGTH: 273 words



HIGHLIGHT: There was a small respite from leadership wrangling for Labour today
when the party won the only council seat it was defending in this week's
byelections.


There was a small respite from leadership wrangling for Labour today when the
party won the only council seat it was defending in this week's byelections.

The party's candidate, Susan McNicholas, won by 96 votes at Ynyscedwyn, Powys
County, mid-Wales, in a ward where Labour was unopposed at the last council
election in 2003.

Labour's share of the vote tumbled, however, in West Sussex county council's
Southwick ward, where the party had finished a fairly strong second in May last
year, on the same day as the general election.

The only seat change was at North Duffield, Selby district, North Yorkshire, won
by William Inness, a Conservative. The ward had previously been independent.

Results

Adur District - Hillside: Con 445, Lib Dem 184, Lab 124. (May 2006 - Con 684,
Lib Dem 250, Lab 219). Con hold. Swing 1.4% Con to Lib Dem.

Powys County - Ynyscedwyn: Lab 451, Lib Dem 355. (May 2003 - Lab unopposed). Lab
hold.

Selby District - North Duffield: Con 316, Lab 84. (May 2003 - Ind unopposed).
Con gain from Ind.

South Shropshire District - Ludlow St Peters: Lib Dem 488, Con 298, Green 70.
(May 2003 - Two seats Lib Dem 366, 276, Con 176, no description 150). Lib Dem
hold. Swing 0.1% Lib Dem to Con.

South Tyneside Borough - Cleadon and East Boldon: Con 1057, Lib Dem 669, Lab
601, Green 124. (May 2006 - Con 1330, Lib Dem 700, Lab 660, Ind 546). Con hold.
Swing 1.8% Con to Lib Dem.

West Devon District - Chagford: Ind 310, Con 224. (May 2003 - Ind unopposed).
Ind hold.

West Sussex County - Southwick: Con 907, Lab 316, Lib Dem 314, Green 96. (May
2005 - C 1966, Lab 1423, Lib Dem 959, Ukip 317, Green 243). Con hold. Swing
12.5% Lab to Con.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               11 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                          September 14, 2006 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

MONSTERS COMING TO GRAB OUR BENEFITS

BYLINE: by TOM SAVAGE

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 202 words


BRITAIN will be over run by half-human half-animal monsters flocking here to
claim our benefits.

The beasts are lying in laboratories waiting for their masters to release them
into society, Euro-MP Miroslav Mikolasik has warned.

And he said governments must prepare for the onslaught now or face chaos when
the army of Frankenstein's monsters arrives. Slovakian politician Mikolasik, a
highly-respected doctor, made his jaw-dropping prediction to the European
Parliament's public health committee.

He told fellow MEPs: "Creatures which are halfhuman and half-animal exist in
laboratories.

"You must take a stance.

Does such a creature have the right to welfare benefit?"

The 54-year-old, a member of the European People's Party, was given the job of
coming up with the committee's response to an EU directive on "advanced therapy
medicinal products".

The draft law covers gene and cell therapy and body tissue engineering and was
expected to deal with issues such as stem cell treatments rather than the
outlawing of hybrid monsters.

Last night a spokesman for the UK Independence Party - which is dedicated to
withdrawing Britain from the EU - said: "Debating whether Frankenstein's
monsters should get benefits is lunacy."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CREATURE COMFORTS: Monsters like Kelsey Grammer's Beast in X-Men 3 are
after our dole

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          September 13, 2006 Wednesday

Politics: Nigel Farage wins Ukip leadership contest

BYLINE: Tania Branigan

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 94 words


Nigel Farage was yesterday elected leader of the UK Independence party,
replacing Roger Knapman. The MEP for south-east England easily beat his nearest
rival, Richard Suchorzewski, by 3,329 votes to 1,782. The party's chairman,
David Campbell Bannerman, came in third with 1,443, and David Noakes gained 851
votes. Mr Farage, a former commodity broker, is a founder member of Ukip and a
former chairman of the party. He has stood in several parliamentary byelections,
most recently in Bromley and Chislehurst, where he pushed the Labour candidate
into fourth place.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                          September 13, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Farage elected UKIP leader;
Home News IN BRIEF

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 68 words


The UK Independence Party has elected Nigel Farage, an MEP for the South-east,
as its leader with a threat to become a thorn in the side of the Conservatives.
Mr Farage quickly committed UKIP to capture more traditional Tory voters
alienated from the "liberal Conservatism" of David Cameron, with right-wing
policies on immigration, tax cuts, a return to grammar schools and withdrawal of
the UK from the EU.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                          September 13, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Home News IN BRIEF: Farage elected UKIP leader

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 68 words


The UK Independence Party has elected Nigel Farage, an MEP for the South-east,
as its leader with a threat to become a thorn in the side of the Conservatives.
Mr Farage quickly committed UKIP to capture more traditional Tory voters
alienated from the "liberal Conservatism" of David Cameron, with right-wing
policies on immigration, tax cuts, a return to grammar schools and withdrawal of
the UK from the EU.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               September 12, 2006

Ukip elects new leader

LENGTH: 235 words



HIGHLIGHT: Nigel Farage has been chosen as the new leader of the UK Independence
party.


Nigel Farage has been elected the new leader of the UK Independence party.

The MEP beat three other candidates by a comfortable margin to lead the fringe
party, which has 10 MEPs in Brussels but has no seats at Westminster.

Mr Farage, probably the Eurosceptic party's most familiar face after the
defection of Robert Kilroy-Silk, the TV presenter, won the contest with nearly
half the votes cast.

The results - announced at a meeting in central London - were: Nigel Farage
3,329, Richard Suchorzewski 1,782, David Campbell Bannerman 1,443 and David
Noakes 851.

There were 169 spoiled votes and the total number of votes was 7,405. It was a
postal vote of all members, although only around 50% are thought to have voted.

Mr Farage replaces former party leader Roger Knapman, who was formerly a Tory
MP.

The party scored an enormous breakthrough after Mr Kilroy-Silk joined, winning
two seats on the London assembly as well as their dozen seats in Brussels.

However, Mr Kilroy-Silk left to form his own party, Veritas, after an attempt to
become leader of Ukip himself.

Ukip is the only mainstream party in Britain calling for outright withdrawal
from the EU. It is also developing plans for an East European style 'flat tax',
but has suffered setbacks in its attempts to widen its base beyond the rightwing
fringe of the Tory party.

All four candidates were middle aged white males - another frequent criticism of
the party.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               16 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               September 12, 2006

Ukip elects new leader

LENGTH: 366 words



HIGHLIGHT: Nigel Farage has been chosen as the new leader of the UK Independence
party.


Nigel Farage has been elected the new leader of the UK Independence party.

The MEP beat three other candidates by a comfortable margin to lead the fringe
party, which has 10 MEPs in Brussels but has no seats at Westminster.

Mr Farage, probably the Eurosceptic party's most familiar face after the
defection of Robert Kilroy-Silk, the TV presenter, won the contest with nearly
half the votes cast.

The results - announced at a meeting in central London - were: Nigel Farage
3,329, Richard Suchorzewski 1,782, David Campbell Bannerman 1,443 and David
Noakes 851.

There were 169 spoiled votes and the total number of votes was 7,405. It was a
postal vote of all members, although only around 50% are thought to have voted.

Mr Farage replaces former party leader Roger Knapman, who was formerly a Tory
MP.

The party scored an enormous breakthrough after Mr Kilroy-Silk joined, winning
two seats on the London assembly as well as their dozen seats in Brussels.

However, Mr Kilroy-Silk left to form his own party, Veritas, after an attempt to
become leader of Ukip himself.

Ukip is the only mainstream party in Britain calling for outright withdrawal
from the EU. It is also developing plans for an East European style 'flat tax',
but has suffered setbacks in its attempts to widen its base beyond the rightwing
fringe of the Tory party.

All four candidates were middle aged white males - another frequent criticism of
the party.

Mr Farage said he aimed to make Ukip a "truly representative party".

He said: "We have an awful lot to do. The party has always been very good at
fighting elections in Europe.

"I intend to make the party a fully-fledged political party that is offering the
public a real choice."

Mr Farage said Ukip would aim to field 500 candidates at the next general
election.

He said it was his intention to move away from just the single issue of Europe
and campaign on "lower, simpler, flatter taxes", selective education and giving
Britain its own independent trade policy.

He said he wanted to give people a voice, particularly those who felt they could
no longer vote for the Tories.

He added: "People may place us as being right of centre; I would place us as
being in the centre of public opinion."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               17 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 10, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Is PM heading for the chop?;
LEADER CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: KIRSTY BUCHANAN

SECTION: LEADER; 27

LENGTH: 538  words


IF Tony Blair thinks former Minister Tom Watson is disloyal, he should cast a
wary eye over comments made by uber-rebel Jon Trickett.

Trickett, who chairs Labour's Left-wing Compass group, has likened our
soon-to-be-departing Prime Minister to King Charles I - and we all know what
happened to him.

The Hemsworth MP told his local newspaper that Blair's refusal to recall
Parliament during the recent Lebanon conflict showed a Premier content to hide
behind the Royal Prerogative - "which gives him ultimate power over war and
peace".

And he warns it was a clash between the monarch and Parliament that led to the
overthrow of Charles I by Oliver Cromwell. Any resemblance between our own dear
Chancellor and the brooding Cromwell is, of course, purely coincidental.

SHOULD Tony Blair fail to survive the coup, a grateful nation has some helpful
suggestions on how to spend an enforced early retirement. The internet has been
flooded with ideas, some even funnier than Downing Street's own proposals for
Blair: The Farewell Tour.

A stint on Celebrity Big Brother could do wonders for Blair's reputation,
suggests one fan - "after all, look what it did for George Galloway".

Or Blair might want to consider a guest appearance on hit US TV show 24. The
plot synopsis pitched: "Jack Bauer, played by Kiefer Sutherland, is taken to one
side by TB, who points out that he should be a more listening type of person.
Then TB wrestles a terrorist to the ground and deactivates a nuclear device with
only a Labour Party membership card. Note: we must find one of those cards. . .
surely someone's got one."

But one blogger is less than impressed with the leaked proposal to put our
departing Prime Minister on Blue Peter. "Here's a country I ruined earlier. . .
" THE Department for Education has secured the backing of former SAS soldier
Andy McNab for a new campaign promoting adult literacy classes - but his support
may be short-lived.

The department's publicity material describes McNab as the "highly successful
novelist, whose novels include Bravo Two Zero". McNab has always insisted the
book is a true account of an SAS mission during the first Gulf War, vehemently
denying that he exaggerated or fabricated any part of it.

BRITAIN need not fear an influx of Bulgarians when the country joins the
European Union next year - because of our rotten weather.

Bulgaria's Prime Minister Sergei Stanishev insists his countrymen will not come
to Britain in large numbers because the climate is too cold for their tastes.
Temperatures in Bulgaria can plummet to minus 20C in the winter. With spin like
that, no wonder they call Stanishev the "Bulgarian Blair".

TONY Blair's final clash with the unions at the TUC conference is likely to
overshadow the election of Ukip's new leader, which falls on the same day.

The party will be hoping for a higher media profile at their conference next
month in, er, Telford. But while the anti-EU MEPs will be pounding the
rain-soaked streets of Telford, European Greens will be soaking up the sun in
the Canaries for their conference - which they call a retreat. Nice to know the
Greens will be doing their bit for global warming by jetting off to the Canaries
- leaving a trail of polluting jet fuel in their wake.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HERO: TB could advise Jack Bauer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           September 7, 2006 Thursday

letters;
We need true Brits

SECTION: ED SC1; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 1651 words


THE divisiveness which has evolved from the friendly rivalry pre-1997 fostered
by New Labour in creating two phoney devolved assemblies in Wales and Scotland
will destroy the UK.

We need a self-governing nation state which takes heed of the interests of the
British people and ignores the diktats of the Texas redneck and the multitude of
Eurocrats who call the shots in our lives.

Who needs a glorified county council in Edinburgh, dominated by ineffectual
drones?

The recent Dunfermline by-election showed up their worth. Jack McConnell
announced a 300 percent increase in bridge tolls only to have it promptly
overruled by Chancellor Brown, amply demonstrating where the real power lies.

Get rid of the Holyrood gabfest and we immediately resolve the 'West Lothian
question' - and save the British taxpayer a fortune. The best talent, be it
English, Scottish or Welsh, can serve in a UK government for the common good.

I agree totally with the concept of a 'Brit Nat' party (Letters). Few, if any,
of the inhabitants of Holyrood have the talent to participate in the government
of a nation of 60 million people. The alternative is lunatic fringes such as
UKIP, the BNP and the like who foster division and negativity.

Someone coined the phrase 'union makes us strong' and this was never truer than
when applied to the island of Great Britain. If we go back to small, regional
rumps, we will lose our identity as one of the strongest nations in the world.

In people's minds, the Tories were once seen as the British party. Under
successive leadership failures, culminating with 'Comrade Cameron', this
identity has been lost.

We need to re-establish the nation that, speaking English, has a Christian
culture, and is a tolerant haven for all other cultures and creeds in need of
shelter from oppression.

The present free-for-all must come to an end if we are to survive. None of the
existing political groupings has the will to make it so.

RICHARD HOGG, Ayr.

Fireman fiasco THE treatment of the nine Glasgow firemen is an utter disgrace.
The 'high heid yins' who allowed this should be thoroughly ashamed of
themselves, and as for that spokeswoman for the gay community who was on the
news crowing about how they deserved what they got - well, words fail me.

Although it is small comfort, the firemen can be assured that the majority of
ordinary people are with them.

BILLY NAPIER, Ormiston, East Lothian.

I'M APPALLED at the disciplinary treatment meted out to the Glasgow firemen who
refused to distribute leaflets at a so-called gay march.

I presume that these are the same men who are part of a group of fire service
employees who were commended not so long ago for their conduct in the aftermath
of the Maryhill disaster.

Isn't it significant that once again the rights of the minorities are brought to
the fore, while the rights of the rest of us are ignored? Thought police take
note.

BRIAN GOLDIE, Stenhousemuir.

Heartwarming success ANGIOPLASTY is certainly a great success as far as my
husband is concerned. After several heart attacks, a stent was inserted in one
of his arteries at Papworth Hospital, Cambridge, in July 1997 - and, as my
husband is very much alive, the operation was a huge success.

LORNA FOWLER, Glenrothes.

Passport to Pakistan THERE are few cultures which don't teach respect and
gratitude for the women who give birth to us. It is this betrayal which must cut
Louise Campbell, mother of Molly who fled with her father to Pakistan, to the
very soul.

Thanks to Mrs Campbell, Molly secured an education and the all-important British
passport which she may use at her convenience. I wish Mrs Campbell well with her
new partner.

Presumably, Molly made a devious show of fitting in with her new school friends
while plotting behind her mother's back with the collusion of her siblings and
father. This two-facedness is an unattractive trait we are seeing more of.

I still wait for the day our detractors burn their passports in protest at our
quaint little ways.

MARY O'KELLY, Glasgow.

Driving so low IN THE Sixties, I was a heavy goods driver living in Birmingham.
One day, I was given a load for Hull docks and my route to Hull was via
Nottingham and Doncaster.

Never having been that way before, I had to watch the road signs. Just before
Doncaster, I saw that I had to turn left up ahead, this I did, and a short way
along I came to a set of traffic lights that were on red.

I stopped and waited. As there was no road junction, just the set of lights and
a gateway to fields on both sides, I assumed that it was for a farmer to move
cattle or sheep.

After a time, I decided that the farmer had forgotten to change the lights, and
began to move off, but then I suddenly heard a roaring and the air began to
shake. I braked hard and as I did a large plane came over the hedge. All I saw
was the pilot in the cockpit shaking his fist at me.

Soon after, a military vehicle came up behind me flashing its lights. I got out
and had the biggest roasting of my life.

I was on the wrong road. I should have turned left at the next large junction.

I'm now 72 and I still see that plane and boy do I love life.

GORDON COTTER, Stenhousemuir.

Digging up dirt IN VIEW of the great suspicion that surrounds the Dome, I can't
help think that if excavations are carried out on the site one day, someone
might discover a great wad of discarded plain brown envelopes.

VICTOR SMITH, Balintore, Ross-shire.

History ignored MAX HASTINGS'S description of the problems our troops in
Afghanistan face is accurate (Mail).

This year, I attended the disbandment dinner of 39 Squadron at RAF Marham.

A well-presented speech at the dinner highlighted the 90-year history of the
squadron. In doing so, reference was made concerning the posting of the squadron
to North India in 1928 to support our troops on the ground fighting the
so-called rebels in Afghanistan.

Once again, our political leaders have put troops into an impossible position by
not studying history. Our track record in Afghanistan is poor.

What is happening now will continue to happen until someone pulls all our forces
out of that country.

The Government would do well to listen to the mood of the electorate before it
is too late.

JOHN BUCKINGHAM, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk.

Pride in our Armed Forces PUBLIC comments in response to the tragic RAF Nimrod
crash and the all too regular Army losses in Iraq and Afghanistan show a change
in opinion about the military.

I recently ended a career flying Tornado bombers in the RAF and, in my earlier
years, it was quite common to meet people who weren't impressed with what I did
because of the Government's policy on Iraq and Afghanistan.

I think people are now slowly realising that the military does what it is told
and does not create the policy that results in conflicts.

At a live comedy show I went to recently, the warm-up act asked me what I did
for a living. I reluctantly answered the question - and the rest of the audience
burst into spontaneous applause. I felt, for once, very humble and proud of my
military service.

I don't think members of the Armed Forces should necessarily be highlighted for
special praise, but it certainly makes a difference to the criticism and
ridicule I was occasionally the victim of earlier in my military service.

LAURENCE WILLIAMS, Hockwold, Norfolk.

Love after divorce LIKE Sandra Creasy (Letters), I, too, had been married for 20
years to a man I absolutely adored. Then the bombshell was dropped .. . he was
leaving me - for another man.

My life was shattered. I'd go to bed and pray that I'd never wake up. I just
wanted to die. I had hit rock bottom, became severely depressed and vowed I
would never trust any man ever again.

I'm now going through the divorce, with a teenage daughter to care for. I am 41,
slim, blonde and attractive (so I'm told), but I have absolutely no
self-confidence. This has completely changed me as a person.

Where on earth was I ever going to meet a genuine, decent, articulate,
wellmannered, romantic man who wasn't after only one thing?

A friend suggested online dating, which, at first, I dismissed. Then one evening
I took the plunge. I nervously went on a few dates which were unsuccessful, but
last year I met somebody very special and we just clicked.

It was like finding the missing piece of the jigsaw.

He's the opposite of me, but we share the same values and I absolutely adore
him. I have now slowly started to rebuild my life, but it has been a long
process, which I never dreamed would be possible.

If something wonderful like this could happen to plain old me, then I'm
confident it could happen to Sandra, too.

Good luck for the future, Sandra, and don't give up hope. I have been to hell
and back, and survived and succeeded.

Name and address supplied.

Championing Freddie TUESDAY, September 5, would have been the 60th birthday of
outrageous rock legend Freddie Mercury, who also had a caring side to his
nature.

Twenty years ago, I was very ill with spinal cancer. My late mother wrote to
Freddie for a signed photo to cheer me up, and just days later Freddie sent me
lots of gifts, including a sketch he had drawn of Queen.

The night before I had to go back into hospital, Freddie arranged with my mother
to telephone me. He talked about when he lived in Liverpool, as a young singer
with his group IBEX.

He made me laugh with a story about being helped across the road by two
Liverpool pensioners after he fell off his platform shoes and sprained his
ankle.

For a man who was, unknown to the public, already ill to take time to cheer up a
young fan was incredibly brave.

He gave me the courage to face yet another operation on my spine. And a week
after my surgery, a huge bouquet arrived at the hospital from him.

Freddie was a world star but also a kind and compassionate man. I'm now confined
to a wheelchair but I always feel like getting up to dance when I hear a Queen
song. I bet Freddie has them rocking in Heaven.

Mrs FIONA LEMSTONE, Liverpool.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                           September 7, 2006 Thursday

EU green road tax hike fear

LENGTH: 100  words


MOTORING costs could rocket under EU plans to seize control of Britain's car
taxes.

Eurocrats want to harmonise all road levies by linking them to exhaust fume
levels.

If the move is approved, HALF of all duty paid by car owners will be linked to
emissions within four years. Motoring groups fear it would mean higher road tax
as the UK is brought in line with other countries.

While some have lower road taxes, many have hefty registration tax on new cars
and some have a regional road tax.

UK Independence Party Euro MP John Whittaker said: "The EU will not rest until
it takes control of all our taxes."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          September 6, 2006 Wednesday

Reply Letters and emails: Cameron's new special relationship

BYLINE: Nigel Farage, MEP

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 106 words


David Cameron is, of course, right to say that Britain and India should have a
special relationship (Comment, September 5): Ukip has been saying this for many
years. Unfortunately for Mr Cameron, his desire for the UK to remain in the
European Union means that our trade policy is dictated from Brussels by Peter
Mandelson, and any trade negotiations will exclude the British government.
Countries such as India and other booming economies should be embraced by
Britain as trading partners as a means to increasing global wealth. But until we
control our own trade policy, this will not be possible.

Nigel Farage MEP

UK Independence party

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 26 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               September 4, 2006

PCC throws out UKIP complaint against Sunday Times

LENGTH: 241 words



HIGHLIGHT: The press watchdog today rejected a complaint from the leader of the
UK Independence party against the Sunday Times over its journalists concealing
their identities. By Stephen Brook.


The Press Complaints Commission today rejected a complaint from the leader of
the UK Independence party against the Sunday Times over its journalists
concealing their identities.

Roger Knapman, the leader of UKIP, complained that journalists had employed
subterfuge in order to make inquiries about the Polish workers who were working
on and living in his house.

Mr Knapman told the press watchdog he had never made any secret of the fact that
he was employing Polish workers in this way and would have spoken to journalists
if they had approached him openly.

The Sunday Times said the subterfuge was necessary, claiming that Mr Knapman was
unlikely to assist the paper in exposing his political hypocrisy in being leader
of an anti-immigration party and at the same time employing immigrant workers.

"The PCC judged that there was a sufficient element of public interest in the
newspaper's pursuit of the story, given the perceived difference between the
complainant's political position as leader of UKIP and his practice of employing
non-UK workers," the commission said in a statement.

"It did not consider that the subterfuge was disproportionate or unnecessarily
intrusive in this context. The complaint under clause 10 [of the PCC code] was
not upheld on that basis."

To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone
020 7239 9857

If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for
publication".

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               22 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           September 2, 2006 Saturday

EU migration: Flawed statistics: Home Office used wrong figures to predict
'trickle'

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, European editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 456 words


A key government defence of the historic "big bang" enlargement of the EU in
2004 - that immigration to Britain would amount to a trickle - was based partly
on unrelated German research.

As ministers respond to growing unease at the influx of eastern Europeans by
planning restrictions on Romanian and Bulgarian workers, Herbert Brucker, who
claimed that a mere 13,000 workers would come to Britain in the first year, told
the Guardian: "The number of workers who went to Britain and Ireland was much
higher than we forecast. We were wrong about the UK - we did not expect
(migration) to that extent."

Since eight eastern and central European countries joined the EU in 2004 up to
600,000 workers, mainly from Poland, have come to Britain. Around half of these
have returned home, meaning that the net immigration figure stands at around
150,000 a year. The government estimates that the regular movement of highly
skilled eastern European workers places the annual figure closer to 76,000.

But the mismatch between Dr Brucker's calculations and the real impact of
enlargement will provide ammunition for Eurosceptics as ministers prepare for
the admission of Bulgaria and Romania.

Rightwing critics will be delighted that Dr Brucker says his work was flawed
because it was based on statistics from Germany. Britain, he said, fails to keep
proper migration figures. "We have models," the Nuremberg-based academic said.
"The 13,000 was extrapolated from the German model because the UK does not
report migration precisely. Therefore you cannot run a model for the UK."

Dr Brucker's study, for the DIW Berlin economic thinktank, was commissioned by
the European commission. His work was cited in an academic study used by the
Home Office to downplay fears of an influx of workers. The Home Office paper,
coordinated by the University College London economist Christian Dustmann, said:
"Estimates for the UK range between 5,000 and 13,000 net immigrants a year."

Eurosceptics seized on the disclosure. Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK
Independence party in the European parliament, said: "This utterly destroys the
government's credibility over eastern European immigration. How can we now trust
them over Romania and Bulgaria?"

One government source dismissed the criticisms, saying that the former home
secretary David Blunkett always made clear that the Dustmann study was
independent. "This report is one of those things that has assumed gigantic
status that it was never given at the time," the source said.

Dr Brucker admits his calculations were also wrong because they were based on
the assumption that all 15 members of the old EU would open their borders.
Britain, Ireland and Sweden were the only countries to do so.

guardian.co.uk/eu >

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            September 1, 2006 Friday

EU membership to cost us pounds 873 each, claims think tank next year

BYLINE: Philip Johnston Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 360 words


MEMBERSHIP of the European Union will cost everybody in Britain pounds 873 next
year, according to research published yesterday.

The Bruges Group, a Eurosceptic think tank, estimated that the combined direct
and indirect costs in 2007 will amount to pounds 100,000 a minute, or pounds
52.4 billion - about pounds 2 billion more than this year.

This includes a direct gross contribution of pounds 14.2 billion ( pounds 4.7
billion net after rebates and grants), payments of pounds 2.2 billion to
European institutions, pounds 15 billion for the Common Agricultural Policy,
pounds 1 billion for the Common Fisheries Policy, and pounds 20 billion in the
additional costs to business of regulations emanating from Brussels. The study
reckons that Britain has given nearly pounds 200 billion to the EU since joining
what was then the EEC in 1973.

The Bruges Group said that if the Government wished to debunk the figures it
should produce its own cost-benefit analysis, which it has never done.

The report says: ''Successive Conservative and Labour governments have
consistently refused on the grounds that the benefits are 'self-evident'. If any
of the figures contained in this document are incorrect let the Government
challenge them and provide the correct figures.

"The British people should be presented with the facts and figures so they can
decide if this is what they want, and if the price is worth paying.''

Robert Oulds, the director of the Bruges Group, said: "The cost per minute is an
enormous sum.

"To put it into perspective, just pounds 1 billion will pay for 222,000 hip
replacements, or 46,893 nurses, or 38,782 teachers, or 34,585 police officers.

"Imagine what we could do in Britain with the pounds 50.6 billion that the EU
costs us this year.''

Gerard Batten, a London MEP for the UK Independence Party, who wrote the report,
said: "The question should not be whether we can afford to leave but how can we
afford to stay in.''

Mr Batten said the figures were based on costs ''calculated by economists from
the best information available''.

Conservative estimates had been made where precise figures were unavailable, he
said.

philip.johnston@telegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            September 1, 2006 Friday

Pounds 100,000 a minute... our bill to be in the EU ) And that's a conservative
estimate, says think-tank

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 603 words


IT costs every man, woman and child Pounds 873 a year for Britain to belong to
the European Union, it is claimed today.

The overall price of membership is rising ever year and will have reached nearly
Pounds 100,000 per minute by 2007, according to the Bruges Group, a Rightwing
think-tank.

The group published its figures with a challenge to the Government to produce
its own analysis of the cost, which has been demanded by many MPs and peers
since Britain joined the then European Economic Community in 1973.

However, successive governments have refused to carry out a study, arguing the
benefits of membership are self-evident.

Revealing its research in a pamphlet today, the group admitted calculating the
cost of EU membership was 'not easy', but insisted 'conservative estimates' had
been made where exact costs were not known.

It concludes Britain has given nearly Pounds 200billion to the union since
joining and in 2007, taxpayers will contribute Pounds 14.2billion for
membership.

That works out at a cost of Pounds 873 per year for every man, woman and child,
it says.

The group claims that overall, the EU is costing the British economy Pounds
50.6billion this year in direct and indirect costs and by 2007 this will rise to
Pounds 52.4billion nearly Pounds 100,000 per minute.

United Kingdom Independence Party MEP Gerard Batten, author of the pamphlet,
said: 'The question should not be whether we can afford to leave but how can we
afford to stay in.' Robert Oulds, director of the Bruges Group, which counts
former prime minister Lady Thatcher as its honorary president, said: 'The cost
per minute is an enormous sum.

'To put it into perspective, just Pounds 1billion will pay for 222,000 hip
replacements, or 46,893 nurses, or 38,782 teachers, or 34,585 police officers.
Imagine what we could do in Britain with the Pounds 50.6billion that the EU
costs us each year.' Britain's direct annual contribution to the EU budget will
be Pounds 4.7billion and rise year on year to 2013, it said. However, some of
the money we pay to the overseas aid budget is not included in the normal budget
figures.

The Common Agricultural Policy is identified as a big indirect cost of
membership. The CAP ensures that the French, who benefit most from lavish
subsidies to their farmers, get back 98 per cent of their total contributions to
the EU budget.

The CAP, the report says, costs a British family of four an additional Pounds 20
on their weekly food bill or Pounds 1,000 per year.

About half of this is made up of higher taxes in order to subsidise farmers, and
half through higher food bills compared with what we would pay for the same food
on the world market. The Common Fisheries Policy, meanwhile, which has allowed
EU fleets to ravage Britain's fishing grounds, costs at least Pounds 1billion a
year to Britain in lost jobs and reduced catches.

The tide of regulations from the EU is also costing business dear, the report
says.

It is now estimated that 70 per cent of Britain's new laws now emanate from
Brussels, and complying with them all has a direct effect and cost for
government, private organisations and business. Costs are also passed on to the
consumer.

However, the Treasury dismissed the figures. A spokesman said the net budget
contribution for 2005/06 was Pounds 4.5billion, or Pounds 8.1billion gross, even
without the negotiated rebate.

'Membership of the European Union is central to the pursuit of stability, growth
and employment in the UK,' he added.

A spokesman for the European Commission said: 'The guy that wrote this pamphlet
is a member of UKIP and people can draw their own conclusions from that.'

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            September 1, 2006 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Brits pay GBP 100k a minute for EU

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 150 words


BRITS are forking out a staggering GBP 100,000-aminute to bankroll the EU.

We'll chip in a massive GBP 14.2 billion next year.

And other hidden costs - such as contributing cash for aid projects - send
Britain's total contributions to GBP 50.6bn, claimed a report yesterday.

But only GBP 5.6bn of EU cash will be spent here, leaving us billions out of
pocket.

Robert Oulds, director of the Bruges Group, which produced the figures, said:
"Over the course of a year the figure is shocking.

"Just GBP 1bn will pay for 222,000 hip replacements, or 46,893 nurses, or 38,782
teachers, or 34,585 police officers.

Imagine what we could do with the GBP 50.6bn that the EU costs us each year."

The report challenges the government to come clean about the drain on our
coffers.

UK Independence Party MEP Gerard Batten said: "The question should not be
whether we can afford to leave, but how can we afford to stay in."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 26 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            September 1, 2006 Friday

EU set to cost Brits '£ 100k a minute'

BYLINE: Michael Lea

LENGTH: 145  words


EU membership will cost Britain £ 100,000 every minute in 2007, according to
research out yesterday.

Thatcherite think-tank the Bruges Group says UK taxpayers will effectively fork
out £ 52.4billion.

That includes direct payments to Brussels and costs related to farm subsidies
and EU red tape.

Bruges Group director Robert Oulds challenged the Government to dispute the
figures.

He said: "The cost per minute is enormous. The British people should have the
full facts so they can decide if this is what they want."

Overall, the £ 1billion-a-week total cost would pay for 38,782 teachers, 46,893
nurses or 34,585 police officers.

The Bruges Group study was compiled by UKIP MEP Gerard Batten.

He said: "The question should not be if we can afford to leave but how can we
afford to stay in?"

A Treasury spokesman said: "The Bruges Group research is misleading."

The Sun Says -Page Six

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved
