
                               1 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              July 30, 2007 Monday

Missing three million Conservative voters

SECTION: FEATURES; LETTER TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 118 words


SIR - Anthony King's analysis of the recent YouGov poll and by-elections paid
little attention to the movement of support among the "fringe'' parties.

Ukip is seen as the usual repository for disaffected Tories, but it failed in
Sedgefield. The BNP, on the other hand, won almost 9 per cent of the vote. Among
YouGov's 11 per cent for "others'' is a solid nationalist vote, but local
elections and Sedgefield indicate that the BNP is taking ex-Tory votes as well
as the disillusioned Labour white working-class vote.

If the BNP continues to moderate its policies and if the crises in immigration
and immigrant loyalty continue, voters will start to support it in significant
numbers.

David Lovibond

Devizes, Wiltshire

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                              July 29, 2007 Sunday

Ukip boss admits party is down to last pounds 5,000

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS Whitehall Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 426 words


THE UK Independence Party is facing a fresh funding crisis after it emerged it
had as little as pounds 5,000 in the bank and no investments or savings.

John Whittaker, the president of the fiercely eurosceptic party, revealed the
parlous state of Ukip's finances during a courtroom battle with the Electoral
Commission last week.

The commission is taking legal action against Ukip over illegal donations worth
more than pounds 360,000.

"The current account has a balance of somewhere between pounds 5,000 and pounds
10,000 - that's it,'' Mr Whittaker told the court. Donations to Ukip have dried
up over the past 18 months, as the party has lurched from one public relations
disaster to the next.

Tom Wise, a Ukip MEP, is under investigation by the EU's anti-fraud unit over
the use of his parliamentary expenses, while a former party MEP, Ashley Mote, is
standing trial for benefit fraud. He denies the charges.

Donors gave just pounds 141,000 to the party last year, compared to pounds 1.7
million in 2004. In the first quarter of this year, Ukip received just pounds
34,000 - less than the Blah! Party, which is usually regarded as heir to the
Monster Raving Loony Party.

While the state of Ukip's finances will undoubtedly alarm its supporters, the
party is nevertheless expected to survive even if it loses its battle with the
Electoral Commission.

Last week's case, heard at Westmin-ster Magistrates Court, centred on pounds
363,000 given to the party by its leading donor, the retired bookmaker Alan
Bown, while he was not registered on the electoral roll. Under election law, all
political party donors must be properly registered.

Last year, the commission repeatedly asked Ukip to return the funds to Mr Bown.
The party failed to comply, so earlier this year the watchdog launched
proceedings aimed at forcing Ukip to hand all of the money over to the
Government.

Mr Bown has pledged to meet the party's costs if it loses the case. The court is
expected to deliver its judgment on Aug 7.

The case also featured another don-ation of pounds 4,000, received via an
offshore company. Under election law, only companies based in the UK can donate
to political parties.

Ukip's future appears to lie in the hands of Mr Bown, who now provides the vast
majority of its funding. Since 2003, he has given more than pounds 1 million to
the party.

He remains a wealthy individual and has said he is still committed to supporting
Ukip.

But despite spending more than pounds 3.5 million on its campaign over the past
six years, Ukip has yet to win its first seat in Westminster.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             July 28, 2007 Saturday

Cameron isn't just fighting to save his skin, but for the very survival of the
Tory party ...

BYLINE: PETER OBORNE

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1498 words


IT IS extremely hard to understate the earthshaking significance of the polling
data which has been emerging over the last few days. According to the YouGov
survey published yesterday, Gordon Brown's Labour Party would obtain 41 per cent
of the vote were a General Election held this month.

The Conservative Party, by contrast, stands at 32 per cent, while Menzies
Campbell's Liberal Democrats languish at 16 per cent.

This is no rogue forecast. It conforms exactly with the trend in all recently
published polls and is, moreover, confirmed by private research commissioned by
the political parties themselves. When the Cabinet met at Chequers on Thursday
to discuss plans for the General Election, each minister had placed before them
internal Labour Party data showing the Government now enjoys an 8 per cent lead.

This is devastating for the Conservatives.

To realise how bad the situation has become it is necessary to go back no
further than the 2005 General Election, when Tony Blair's Labour Party secured
just 36 per cent of the vote, compared to the 33 per cent won by Michael
Howard's Tory Party. Thanks to the blatant unfairness of the British electoral
system, that 3 per cent lead converted to a 158-seat Labour advantage over the
Conservatives, and into a 65 seat overall Government majority in the House of
Commons.

Let's now undertake a thought experiment and imagine that the latest polling
results are indeed replicated at the General lection. Far from gaining seats
until very recently the universally held but now complacent assumption David
Cameron's Conservatives, as he calls them, would actually fall back very
sharply. They would be lucky to win 175 seats, while Gordon Brown's Labour Party
would surge towards 400 or even above. The Government majority would be well
into three figures a landslide on a scale not very far short of the epic Labour
victories of 1997 and 2001.

I know many people will argue that polls are only of limited significance and,
in particular, that Gordon Brown is simply benefiting from a short-term blip of
the kind that benefits all new prime ministers. I am no expert on popular
opinion, and no doubt this kind of precautionary scepticism is perfectly
sensible. BUT it's more likely that the latest polling information is actually a
reasonably accurate summary of public opinion. In that case, then we may come in
time to realise that the real short-term 'bounce' was the Labour Party weakness
in the polls during the dying days of the Tony Blair government, brought about
by prime ministerial hubris, the novelty of David Cameron and the debacle of the
Iraq War. With Blair gone, Gordon Brown has done no more than restore Labour's
natural popularity.

Certainly that is what some Tories are now coming to believe..

One experienced, loyal and respected Conservative backbencher, said to me last
week: 'I am coming to wonder whether we have entered a period of permanent
centre-Left government lasting many decades, and that we in the Conservative
Party are now doomed to irrelevance. We'll become just a permanent debating
society.' But my back-bencher friend was, if anything, understating the gravity
of the situation from a Conservative point of view. If Gordon Brown as the
opinion polls currently predict wins the next General Election by another
landslide, the Conservative Party may well not survive at all.

It was bad enough for the party after the massive defeats of 1997 and 2001. In
the aftermath of each humiliation, the Conservatives practically destroyed
themselves thanks to internal rows and feuding.

But even after 2001, the party was held together by the belief that it was a
natural party of government, which in due course would return to power. If the
party gets smashed in a fourth consecutive election drubbing by Gordon Brown,
that hope would all but disappear. Some Tories would bow out of politics, while
the party would probably split.

It should be borne in mind that the party has always been an awkward fusion of
traditional Right-wingers, and a more pragmatic or centrist movement. It is
unlikely this coalition, uneasy at the best of times, could be sustained in the
wake of a fourth election drubbing.

Some ambitious Tories encouraged by the example of Shaun Woodward, the former
Conservative MP who now serves in the Brown Cabinet would be tempted to defect
to Labour. I guess a new and more rigidly Rightwing party, incorporating most of
UKIP, would emerge out of the wreckage.

All this may never happen, and only very foolish people ever try to predict the
future. But one observation can be made with total confidence. The Conservative
Party really is in a very grave crisis indeed, and that crisis is about much
more than the temporary difficulties facing David Cameron and the small group of
modernisers who advise him. It concerns the future of the Conservative Party
itself. GORDON Brown, who is an accomplished and highly intelligent strategist,
understands this extremely well. That is why almost everything he has sought to
do since entering Downing Street five weeks ago has been designed to entrench
the Labour Party in the centre, in some ways even the centre- Right, of British
politics. The new Prime Minister is determined to deny David Cameron and his
Tories any room for manoeuvre, by adopting, and in many cases stealing,
Conservative Party positions.

So far this method has worked very well. Gordon Brown has made a series of
well-judged announcements, such as the impeccable decision to reclassify
cannabis as a more dangerous drug. But many of these moves have been primarily
symbolic, while not one of them has had a significant implication for public
spending.

It should be noted, therefore, that by far the most difficult terrain lies
ahead. This autumn, when MPs return from their long summer holidays, Gordon
Brown will be confronted with the two decisions that will help define him as a
leader.

The Government spending review, due in the early autumn, comes at a very
difficult moment. State finances are in a desperate state, while the fall in
world markets has raised worrying questions about whether British economic
stability can be maintained. The Prime Minister and his chancellor will be
forced to make truly problematic decisions about tax and spending.

Then, at the end of the year, Britain must sign up to the new European treaty,
an intellectually dishonest and profoundly antidemocratic document, that
threatens to inflict deep damage on the British national interest.

Both of these two areas should allow David Cameron plenty of scope to plan his
fightback, to define himself as a politician, and to set boundaries between his
own beliefs and the fundamental statism of Gordon Brown's Labour Party.

At last Cameron may be able to present voters with a powerful reason for voting
Tory. He is a highly promising leader who has, even at difficult moments, never
lost his high spirits and natural flair. He must not do so now. When he returns
from his summer holiday in France late next month, he will be fighting not just
the battle for his political life, but also for the survival of the Conservative
Party itself..

Guess what? They're trying to hide a scandal UNSCRUPULOUS government ministers
have traditionally taken advantage of the end of the political season to release
embarrassing or controversial material, and this July is no exception. The most
disgraceful document published in last week's rush came from the freshly
promoted Cabinet minister Ed Miliband.

Its ostensible purpose is admirable: to help charities play a larger role in
helping restore run-down communities. But it also contains a very sinister
proposal to allow charities to be used for political purposes. 'It is surely
possible,' states Miliband's document, 'for political activity to be dominant
within a charity and yet still enable it to further its charitable purpose.' New
Labour in power has long found it conveniently difficult to distinguish between
charitable and political activity. The Smith Institute, to give only one
example, has disturbingly been used as the campaigning and research arm of the
Gordon Brown political machine, even though it is officially a charity.

I have studied these government proposals.

They give scope for nakedly political campaigning funded through 'charities'.
These contributions would be uncapped, would not have to be publicly declared,
and subsidised peter.oborne@dailymail..

(thanks to gift aid) by taxpayers. They could even come from overseas donors.
The timing of these proposals is highly suspicious: now that the Government can
no longer offer peerages to political donors, it is looking towards using
charities as a vehicle for surreptitious party funding.

Greg Clarke, the wide-awake Tory charities' spokesman, has spotted this and is
seeking an urgent meeting with the Charity Commission to raise alarm that
contamination by politicians will erode the reputation of charities generally,
at a time when voluntary giving has never been more urgently needed.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            July 25, 2007 Wednesday

A 'cut-and-paste' EU constitution;
New treaty is 96pc identical to rejected blueprint

BYLINE: James Chapman

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 743 words


CRITICS of the revived EU constitution stepped up demands for a referendum last
night over claims that the draft treaty is almost identical to the old rejected
version on which Labour vowed to hold a vote.

Analysts translating the text - which has been published only in French - have
called it the 'cut-and-paste constitution' because they say 96 per cent is the
same as its 2005 predecessor.

But the Government insists that the concept of a constitution has been
'abandoned', making a referendum unnecessary.

MPs will go on their summer break without even seeing an English translation.

However, the think-tank Open Europe said huge sections of the document are
word-for-word the same as the 2005 version, which was abandoned when voters in
France and the Netherlands rejected it.

Open Europe claims only ten out of 250 proposals have been changed at all.
Director Neil O'Brien said: 'We have been able to translate the text quickly
because we could mostly just cut and paste the English text from the old
constitution. The con they are trying to carry out here is just stunning - this
is the cut-and-paste constitution.' The Tories are planning a summer Back this
is the cut-and-paste constitution.' The Tories are planning a summer offensive
against the Government over its stance. They say the similarities between the
treaties makes it a 'flagrant breach' of Labour's manifesto to refuse voters a
say.

Business leaders have also weighed in, insisting the revised EU constitutional
treaty would be 'bad for business, and bad for Britain.' They include Sir
Crispin Davis, of publishers Reed Elsevier, Simon Wolfson, of clothing firm
Next, Peter Freeman, of property developer Argent, Sir John Ritblat, from the
London Business School, and Lord Sainsbury of Preston Candover, president of the
supermarket giant.

In an open letter, they said the treaty would 'significantly cut' Britain's
ability to block EU laws, which they claim had cost the economy more than
Â£40billion since 1998.

They insisted that despite ministers' assurances, it would lead to Britain being
bound by an EU 'charter of fundamental rights', granting the right to strike.
They added: 'The Government now claims safeguards will stop the charter
affecting Britain's laws. But legal advice for the Commons European scrutiny
committee and the European Commission suggests otherwise.

'Academics and MEPs have already warned that the safeguards will immediately be
challenged in the European Court. Most of the EU leaders have admitted, or even
boasted, that the new treaty is the same as the original constitution.

'The Government must keep its promise to hold a referendum.' Shadow Foreign
Secretary William Hague said there is 'near unanimity' across Europe that the
new treaty remains the constitution 'in all but name' and would bring about a
'fundamental change' to the powers of member states. He added: 'Let me remind
you what the Labour Party's election manifesto said - "We will put it to the
British people in a referendum and campaign wholeheartedly for a Yes vote".
Failure to put it to a referendum would be a fundamental breach of trust between
the Government and voters.' Mr Hague said the treaty would provide a 'massive
boost' to the powers of the European Court of Justice, lead to asylum,
immigration and criminal justice policy increasingly being determined at an EU
level, the beginnings of an EU FBI and Britain's role in foreign policy
gradually shrinking.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said the refusal to hold a referendum
is 'utterly dishonest and totally cynical', adding: 'Only the British government
seems to believe this is not the old, rejected and discredited constitution.
Nine other European leaders say it is.

'The Government can bang on about their famous red lines as much as they want,
but it will not change the facts. We have surrendered our veto in over 60
areas.' Eurosceptic MPs are angry that they are unlikely to have a full debate
on the treaty until early next year, by which time the Government will already
have agreed it.

But Europe Minister Jim Murphy insisted there are 'substantial' differences
between the treaties. He said: 'The UK has signed up to a specific deal which is
good for the UK. It transfers less power to the EU than many treaties upon which
we didn't have a referendum.

'The UK has signed up to a UK version of the European treaty.

We've got a series of opt-outs, on justice and home affairs for example.'
Comment - Page 14

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: William Hague: 'A breach of trust'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              July 22, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Secret talks on EU treaty

BYLINE: Julia HartleyBrewer

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 165  words


FOREIGN Secretary David Miliband will be in Brussels tomorrow to help finalise
the controversial new European Union constitutional treaty, writes Julia
HartleyBrewer.

He will join other EU ministers at a two-day conference to "dot the i's and
cross the t's" of the treaty, which extends EU power into many new areas of
national law.

The meeting will take place behind closed doors despite demands for
transparency, and in the face of growing calls for citizens to be given a say
over the treaty in national referendums.

Foreign Minister Jim Murphy will publish a White Paper on the new treaty after a
statement to the Commons tomorrow, when the Government is expected to hit back
at demands for a referendum.

The summit is the first inter-governmental meeting on the treaty since it was
agreed in June. UKIP leader Nigel Farage MEP said: "If the Government are so
confident this treaty is so good for Britain, why are they skulking away in
secret meetings instead of discussing it in the open?"

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             July 21, 2007 Saturday

Features - Red Eye - Britain's only socialist TV critic;
TV Review: Red Eye follows the fortunes of two 14-year-old twins brought up by a
hideous, hateful fascist

LENGTH: 570 words


It can be most galling for a parent to see their dear children grow up and begin
to question their most deeply cherished beliefs. I'm sure that no readers of the
Morning Star would like to see their child join the Young Conservatives or
become an ardent campaigner for UKIP.

There are some occasions, however, when such adolescent rebellion is sublime.
Such thoughts occurred to me watching documentary-maker James Quinn's absorbing
Nazi Pop Twins (Channel 4, Thursday), which followed the growing pains of US
14-year-olds Lamb and Lynx Gaede.

With such names, you might expect their mother to be a harmless old hippie with
a penchant for knitting her own yoghurt and banging on about crystals. Sadly,
no.

The twins' mother April is in fact a hideous, hateful fascist harridan, who has
decided to market her daughters as the white supremacist movement's answer to
Britney Spears.

The family first came to light in Britain in 2003 when Louis Theroux spent some
time with them. He revealed their penchant for parading around in Adolf Hitler
"smiley face" T-shirts and, under their professional name of Prussian Blue,
singing folk ditties denying the Holocaust and castigating the end of apartheid.

If you're wondering, Prussian Blue is apparently a chemical residue which ought
to have been present in far larger amounts in Auschwitz "if the Holocaust really
happened." I see.

Quinn's documentary caught up with the Gaedes and sought to examine the extent
to which the twins were true believers in all the nazi Aryan bollocks and to
what extent they were merely the extension of their ma's warped philosophy. The
result was often shocking and heartbreaking.

Like most kids, the twins loved their mother and wanted to do their best by her.
On the other hand, there were clear signs that they were beginning to wonder
what the hell they had been roped into.

In one scene, they openly argued with April about what songs to sing at an
forthcoming gig. As average adolescents, they wanted to showcase their latest
material about the tribulations of fancying boys and such.

Ma Gaede felt that a little more racial hatred would make for a better show.

You really felt for them later at the gig itself when, after being received
politely by the audience of the bar for their innocuous set, they then found
themselves at the centre of a mortifying scene when mother tried dishing out
some nazi leaflets. The patrons weren't best pleased and nor was the woman who
owned the place. "Out!" she commanded.

The trouble with the original Theroux documentary was that his trademark
ever-so-English faux incredulity was not really appropriate when confronted with
such appalling people. Quinn, at least, was prepared to take the bull by the
horns and question the Gaedes' bizarre prejudices.

Like most fascists, April was firmly convinced that it was all someone else's
fault. People didn't like her "message" because they were "self-hating" or cowed
by "political correctness" or in thrall to sinister black/Jewish/Mexican
concerns. The fact that she was just plain bloody wrong never crossed her
embittered little brain.

As I indicated, this programme gave hopeful indications that Lamb and Lynx may
well grow a little older and run a mile one day. I hope so. Their grandmother
hoped so. They were not beyond hope.

Their mother, on the other hand, appeared past help and in sore need of having,
to paraphrase Trotsky, her head acquainted with the pavement.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             July 19, 2007 Thursday

The battle for Ealing should be a comedy

BYLINE: Alice Thomson

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1052 words


'Two for the price of one,'' shouted the stall holder as David Cameron and
William Hague walked by. There weren't just two Tory leaders in Southall this
week; there were three Liberal Democrat leaders, too. Paddy Ashdown, Charles
Kennedy and Menzies Campbell have been pacing around the sari shops for the past
few days. Meanwhile, Gordon Brown sent his most loyal lieutenant, the MP Tom
Watson, to run his Ealing Southall campaign. All the parties are now extolling
the virtues of the samosas at Chaudhry's TKC and have swapped their lattes for
lassis in an attempt to woo the west London constituency,

which is almost half Asian and a quarter Sikh.

The Ealing poll today is the most crucial by-election for the parties in more
than a decade. Not only is it Mr Brown's first test at the ballot box; it is the
last major political event of the summer. Since the death of Britain's oldest
MP, Pia Khabra, they have all been obsessing about how to win over this
constituency with its 11,000 Labour majority. Each party, with the exception of
the Greens and the Monster Raving Loony Party, is fielding male candidates with
an Asian background, despite Mr Khabra's dying wish that he should be succeeded
by a woman.

At the Himalayan Palace cinema, posters of Tony Lit, the preposterously
good-looking

34-year-old Tory Bollywood candidate, have been plastered over with pictures of
Labour's Virendra Sharma, who has been a councillor in the area for 25 years and
has already sent out literature saying "Virendra Sharma MP''.

Mr Brown has shown he has no qualms about playing tough. He authorised the
leaking of a cheque to Labour signed by Mr Lit's company, Sunrise Radio, for a
table at Tony Blair's farewell dinner thrown by the Asian community last month.
Labour accuses Mr Lit's father, who owns the radio station, of turning up at
events in a Rolls-Royce with a L1 TTT numberplate and have tagged his eldest son
"the playboy candidate'', to the fury of his Asian friends, who say "playboy''
suggests promiscuous, when he is a staunch family man. Every time Labour aides
hear Mr Lit's loudhailer, with its, "Now is the perfect time to change Ealing
for ever'', they blare out "Vote Sharma'' - in Punjabi.

Mr Cameron has been as ruthless, standing in triumph on the steps of Ealing Town
Hall to unveil his latest recruits: five Sikh Labour councillors who have
swapped sides and wore blue turbans to mark the occasion. The Tory leader said:
"This is the clearest possible indication yet that the Conservative Party,
having been changed and modernised, is now a voice for everybody.'' Tory doctors
and nurses have been giving free health checks to voters at the weekends, and
George Osborne, the shadow chancellor, stood barefoot in an orange hygiene hat
serving lentil curry in a Sikh temple. Mr Lit has issued 100,000 leaflets asking
voters to call him with problems, giving out his own mobile number. One rang
asking him to book a hair appointment - no request is too small.

The Liberal Democrats have unveiled their own defector, Brij Mohan Gupta, former
deputy chairman of Ealing Southall Conservatives; their Punjabi rallying cry is
"Bring the troops home''. Even Ukip has joined in, with William MacDougall, who
contested Tottenham for the Tories at the last election. The Ukip candidate, Dr
KT Rajan, an NHS consultant who came to Britain in 1960, is campaigning for
curbs on immigration from Eastern Europe, accusing incomers of spreading
disease.

It should make the perfect Ealing comedy. But each of the three main parties is
terrified it will turn into their tragedy. The Liberal Democrats, who came
second at the last election, have the most to lose. They have won every
by-election since 1990 in which they have started in second place behind a
candidate from the party of the government. More than 500 campaigners have been
drafted into the constituency to deliver 200,000 leaflets. Lord Razzall, who
chaired the past two Liberal Democrat general election campaigns, has admitted:
"There are clearly some people in the party who are complaining about Ming as
leader and I think a lot of them are using the Ealing by-election as a sort of
catalyst to bring things to a head.'' If the party comes third, elder statesmen
believe Sir Menzies will step down of his own accord.

The Tories also want the Liberal Democrats to do satisfactorily. The idea of
another new leader is worrying for them. If the Liberal Democrats choose Nick
Clegg, he will take votes from the Tories in the centre and return votes to
Labour on the Left. They would also have to watch another young, energetic
campaigner swanning off on a honeymoon with the electorate.

But the Tories must also do well in Ealing. Mr Cameron's strategy rests on
winning back the metropolitan south and wooing the ethnic minorities. The
candidate is a Cameroon appointment, a successful Asian businessman with strong
local connections but no deep political bias, described on the ballot paper as
"Tony Lit - David Cameron's Conservatives''. Labour calls him "Tony Light''.

The defection of the Labour councillors was a good start for the Tories, but it
made them too optimistic that they might win a seat from Labour in a by-election
for the first time in 25 years. They have let Labour win the war of
expectations. It is virtually inconceivable that the Tories will leapfrog to
first place and it will be impressive if they come second, but somehow they have
given the impression that they are way ahead of the opposition.

Mr Brown will also be nervous tonight. For him, it is all about momentum. One
day voters are going to wake up and realise he's actually been around rather a
long time. When he heralded his 23 new Bills last week, he was so
under-confident of their impact that he announced the scrapping of the
super-casinos on the same day to ensure good headlines.

If Labour wins by more than 5,000 votes tonight, friends are urging the Prime
Minister to call an early election. Some of his business acquaintances want him
to go as early as October and have already started to talk about emergency
funding, but this

week his political allies were suggesting waiting until spring.

As I took the Tube back from Southall with Mr Cameron and Mr Hague, they said
they were preparing for a snap election. If Mr Brown wins comfortably, they will
need to be ready.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              July 16, 2007 Monday

BBC inquiry into 'EU bias' on Today of Today show

BYLINE: Damian Thompson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 250 words


THE BBC Trust is to investigate allegations that the Radio 4 Today programme is
so biased in favour of the European Union that only one in five interviewees is
a Eurosceptic.

Sir Michael Lyons, chairman of the trust - the body that replaced the BBC
governors - has promised an inquiry into claims made by the UK Independence
Party peer Lord Pearson of Rannoch.

According to Lord Pearson, the Today programme's coverage of the EU has "slipped
back'' after temporarily improving following the 2005 Wilson report, which
accused the BBC of "cultural and unintentional'' pro-EU bias.

Today was singled out for criticism at the time.

In a letter to Sir Michael, Lord Pearson said Today "refuses to cover perhaps
the most important aspect of our current EU relationship, which is that Brussels
is putting the failed constitution in place piecemeal, surreptitiously and
illegally. It also refuses to challenge the notion that millions of jobs depend
on our membership of the EU.''

In his reply to Lord Pearson, Sir Michael said the BBC Trust would investigate
his complaints this autumn. Such investigations take place when complainants
"remain unsatisfied'' by the response of BBC management.

The complaints are based on research by Minotaur Media Monitoring, which found
that by the end of last year Eurosceptics accounted for only 22 per cent of
Today interviewees.

Lord Pearson said yesterday: "I'm glad that the report is being delayed until
the autumn, because it might put some pressure on Today in the interim.''

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              July 16, 2007 Monday

The Today programme is too pro-Europe, say critics

SECTION: 3RD; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 262 words


THE BBC has launched an investigation into claims of a pro-EU bias on Radio 4's
flagship Today programme.

There are allegations that anti- Brussels voices have been excluded.

In a letter to Sir Michael Lyons, chairman of the BBC trust which replaced the
governors, UKIP peer Lord Pearson claims that only one in five interviewees are
Eurosceptic.

Sir Michael has responded by promising an inquiry.

The three-hour breakfast show is the BBC's most influential current affairs
programme, listened to by politicians and key opinion-formers. The probe fol-
lows several previous studies into BBC coverage of the EU.

In 2005, an inquiry by former Cabinet Secretary Lord Wilson said the corporation
had failed in its efforts to be impartial and was guilty of a pro-European bias.

The Today programme was singled out in the inquiry.

The board of governors at the time dismissed suggestions that this was
deliberate but acknowledged that there needed to be an improvement.

Only last month, a report commissioned by the BBC showed that the corporation
had a liberal bias which influenced some programme-making.

Lord Pearson says Today has 'slipped back' after initial improvements following
the Wilson report. He says the programme 'refuses to cover perhaps the most
important aspect of our current EU relationship, which is that Brussels is
putting the failed constitution in place piecemeal, surreptitiously and
illegally.

'It also refuses to challenge the notion that millions of jobs depend on our
membership.' In reply, Sir Michael said that a probe by the BBC Trust would
begin this autumn..

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              July 16, 2007 Monday
                                 First Edition

Pussy galore;
Pandora

BYLINE: OLIVER DUFF

LENGTH: 143 words


Chuckles over in the UK Independence Party after a raspberry successfully blown
at the Tories. Ukip leader Nigel Farage's 25-year-old media relations siren,
Annabelle "Fruity" Fuller, successfully enrolled her cat in the Tory youth
branch, Conservative Future.

The Rev Todd Fuller, a right-wing puss, has been invited to city functions and
bothered by telephone calls asking him to canvass voters in elections. The mog
voted for David Cameron to become party leader and, despite being expelled last
autumn, when supremos finally figured out he was not human, he received a letter
from the Tory leader in the Lords, Thomas Galloway Dunlop du Roy de Blicquy
Galbraith (the 2nd Baron Strathclyde), asking if he would care to join an
exclusive donors club.

"It cost £500," whispers Ms Fuller, duskily, "and that's a lot of Kitekat so he
decided not to in the end."

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             July 16, 2007, Monday

'Playboy with no political interest' -the fight is on

BYLINE: Philip Webster, Greg Hurst

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 653 words


* Contest marked by personal gibes and abuse

* Party defends its man over Blair photograph

The campaign for this week's crucial by-election in West London slid into
personal abuse and bitterness yesterday as rival parties tried to exploit Tory
embarrassment over its candidate posing with Tony Blair.

Labour branded Tony Lit unsuitable to be the area's MP and called him a "Tory
playboy". He was photographed only last month at a Labour fundraising event with
Mr Blair.

Meanwhile, the Liberal Democrats tried to stamp themselves as the main
challenger to Labour in Thursday's contest in Ealing Southall. Today they will
send out 45,000 copies of a campaign newspaper carrying the picture of Mr Lit
with Mr Blair, hoping to attract both disaffected Conservatives and Labour
voters still upset about Mr Blair's role in the Iraq war.

The Conservatives tried to play down the disclosure that Mr Lit's Asian radio
station, Sunrise, paid £ 4,800 to Labour for the table where Mr Lit and his
father, Avtar, sat with, among others, Stephen Pound, the Labour MP for Ealing
North.

Mr Pound compounded Tory discomfort yesterday by suggesting that Mr Lit had
shown little interest in politics at the dinner and that his father had
successfully bid £ 4,000 -apparently for payment to a charity, not Labour -for
the pleasure of going to a fundraising dinner in the United States attended by
Hillary Clinton.

Mr Lit, who has since left Sunrise, said that he had attended the event for the
Asian business community. "But like many British Asians I feel the Labour
Government does not have the answers to the challenges that currently face the
country."

A Conservative spokesman said: "This was a dinner organised for Asian businesses
and Sunrise Radio attended. Tony Lit has always been a Conservative voter."

The Labour leaflet said that Mr Lit was "out of touch" and had no experience of
solving local people's problems.

Liberal Democrat attempts to establish the party as the main challenger to
Labour have been hindered by the high-profile Conservative campaign. Yesterday
the party made plans to produce 45,000 copies of a campaign tabloid newspaper
carrying the photograph of Mr Lit with Mr Blair. Lib Dem literature has already
featured pictures of President Bush with Mr Blair, even though he is no longer
Prime Minister, based on the party's belief that many ethnic minority voters
associate him with the invasion of Iraq.

Lord Rennard, the Lib Dems' chief executive, who is running the campaign in
Ealing Southall, told The Times: "If Labour are ahead, then the way they can now
be beaten will be if former Conservative supporters now switch to the Liberal
Democrats."

He said that about 500 Liberal Democrat campaigners had been delivering leaflets
and canvassing voters in Ealing Southall over the weekend, led by Sir Menzies
Campbell and Simon Hughes, the party president.

The party has a huge campaign headquarters on a Southall industrial estate and
has quietly been mounting an intensive leaflet-based campaign.

Clearly, although without making this explicit, the party has been putting much
greater effort into the Ealing Southall by-election than into the other contest
taking place on Thursday -the by-election in Sedgefield, Mr Blair's former seat.

EALING SOUTHALL

Candidates

Nigel Bakhai Liberal Democrat

John Sydney Cartwright Official Monster Raving Loony Party

Sati Chaggar English Democrats

Salvinder Singh Dhillon Respect

Sarah Janet Edwards Green

Kuldeep Singh Grewal Ind

Tony Lit Conservative

Yakub Masih Christian Party Jasdev Singh Rai Ind

KT Rajan UK Independence Party

Virendra Kumar Sharma Labour

Gulbash Singh Independent

2005 General Election

Piara Khabra, Labour 22,937 (48.8 per cent); Nigel Bakhai, Lib Dem 11,497 (24.4
per cent); Mark Nicholson, Conservative 10,147 (21.6 per cent); Sarah Edwards,
Green 2,175 (4.6 per cent); Malkiat Bilku, Workers' Revolutionary Party 289 (0.6
per cent). Majority: 11,440 Turnout: 56.2 per cent

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             July 14, 2007 Saturday

June 11, 2009 'is polling day'

BYLINE: Toby Helm Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 190 words


GORDON Brown is laying plans to hold a general election on June 11, 2009 - the
same day as the next European elections - in a ploy aimed at driving
euro-sceptic Tories into the arms of anti-EU parties.

Ministers say that Mr Brown sees a "super Thursday'' of national, local and
European elections as the best option for hitting the Tory vote and also
maximising Labour's notoriously sluggish turnout.

They also say it is a way for the cash-strapped Labour Party to save money by
concentrating local, national and European campaigns.

A senior Cabinet minister said that June 11, 2009 would "become the date'' and
that the Prime Minister was not thinking of calling an election any earlier.
Another minister said legislative changes had been made in Parliament that would
allow the 2009 local elections to be moved from May 7 to June 11.

Ministers believe Labour could deprive the Tories of up to 10 seats if
Right-wing euro-sceptics who have voted Tory in the past turn to parties
campaigning for EU withdrawal such as the UKIP and British National Party. They
are more likely to do so on a day of EU elections, when European issues are at
the fore.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            July 11, 2007, Wednesday

Call for vote on 'Europe empire'

BYLINE: David Charter, Strasbourg

SECTION: OVERSEAS NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 570 words


* Reform treaty has 'full backing' of Commission

* Eurosceptics to press Brown for referendum

Britain was told yesterday that it was part of a new European empire -by the
Brussels bureaucrat who would be emperor. Jose Manuel Barroso, President of the
European Commission, said that all 27 EU members should be proud of their unique
union. "At least we in the Commission are proud of it."

Conservatives and eurosceptics said that they would use Mr Barroso's comments to
press Gordon Brown for a referendum on the treaty replacing the failed EU
constitution -a vote the Prime Minister is refusing to call.

Mr Barroso's comments came as he announced the European Commission's
wholehearted support for the new EU reform treaty. Asked to describe what the EU
was, he said: "We are not the United States of Europe -we are unique in the
history of mankind! Sometimes I like to compare the EU as a creation to the
organisation of empires.

We have the dimension of empire but there is a difference. Empires were made
with force with a centre imposing diktat.

"Now what we have is the first non-imperial empire. We have 27 countries that
fully decided to work together and to pool their sovereignty. I believe it is a
great construction and we should be proud of it."

Nervous aides to the former Portuguese Prime Minister inquired after his press
conference whether this description might feature in British media reports.

Mr Barroso, a law graduate who was backed by Britain to become European
Commission President, all but declared himself emperor while argument is raging
in Westminster over whether the Government should keep to Tony Blair's pledge to
hold a referendum on the EU constitution.

The new treaty is not a constitution, but does contain many of the same elements
such as a powerful EU foreign minister and the transfer of dozens of policy
areas to qualified-majority decision-making. A spokesman for Mr Barroso later
said: "No one needs to have imperial nightmares." President Barroso at his press
conference on the new EU Reform Treaty referred to a quote by the German
philosopher Peter Sloterdijk to emphasise that the EU is anything but a
superstate. EU member states come together peacefully, democratically and
voluntarily and the President would not want it any other way."

Peter Sloterdijk is a graduate of Munich University, who has published a number
of papers, including the 1983 philosophical treatise Critique of Cynical Reason.
He is perhaps most famous however for co-hosting a German television show called
Das Philosophische Quartett.

Mark Francois, the Shadow Europe Minister, said: "The British public will be
surprised to hear that we are now part of an EU empire. For the President of the
Commission to say this is quite startling and anyone who thinks that we have
been exaggerating in calling for a referendum on a revived constitution only has
to look at what Mr Barroso has said to realise the scale of what is now being
contemplated."

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "I would like Mr
Barroso to come to Britain and repeat those quotes and see what the reaction
would be.

"Or maybe he would prefer to visit the Brussels colony of Britain? Whichever he
chooses we all know how we would react."

One observer said: "He had forgotten for a moment he was President of the
European Commission and was suddenly Professor Barroso again speaking to his
students about his latest thesis."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              July 9, 2007 Monday

Admit NI is not actually insurance

SECTION: CITY; Letter to the City Editor; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 151 words


SIR - E R Chalker (letters to the City Editor, July 2) correctly points out that
state pensioners do not pay National Insurance. He suggests that UKIP's proposal
to treat employees' NI as income tax would therefore be to their disadvantage.

However, our tax policy allows for a lower flat tax rate for pensioners which
makes all those on incomes up to pounds 30,000 better off. There are other
differences between income tax and employees' NI which are also addressed.

It really would not be hard to eliminate the awful bureaucracy caused by the
different rules, thresholds and rates for these two types of income tax. The
main obstacle is that the Government would have to admit that National Insurance
is not actually insurance and the current standard rate of tax (including
employees' NI) is actually 33pc, or 40.6pc if we add the employer's part as
well.

John Whittaker MEP

Chairman, UK Independence Party

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                              July 6, 2007, Friday

The man who would be Tony Blair

BYLINE: Greg Hurst Political Correspondent

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 585 words


* Labour candidate who aims to hold Sedgefield

* Row over failure to rebuild shopping centre

Labour faces a test in the by-election for Tony Blair's former seat to head off
local anger over the failure to rebuild the constituency's biggest town centre.

A mood of revolt is abroad among folk in Newton Aycliffe, a drab post-war
settlement where promises of a new shopping centre have been blocked by rows
with developers.

Dozens of vacant shopping units, cracked paving slabs and blue iron railings
remain as a standing rebuke to those to blame for the stalled project. Charity
shops, pawnbrokers and discount stores flourish instead.

Labour, long the ruling local party in an area of Durham once dominated by
coalmining, hopes that the decision to call a snap election will leave too
little time for local anger to mobilise around one rival candidate.

In May's local elections six Labour councillors, including the council leader,
lost their seats to independents campaigning for a new town centre. Overall,
independents made ten gains and hold fifteen seats on Sedgefield council.

One of them, a former Newton Aycliffe shopkeeper, Paul Gittins, is standing in
the by-election in an attempt to revive such momentum.

The Liberal Democrats have sent the team attibuted with engineering their
victory in the Dunfermline & West Fife by-election to lead the campaign of their
candidate, Greg Stone. Mr Stone, a councillor in Newcastle, is urging voters to
send Labour a message "after years of neglect".

The Conservatives, with just one council seat in Sedgefield, have a weaker base
but their candidate, Graham Robb, a public relations man, is similarly focusing
on the failure to regenerate the town centre, proposing a public-private company
to rebuild it.

The campaign threatens to embarrass Mr Blair with suggestions that he neglected
his constituency during his ten years as Prime Minister.

Mr Blair, who is taking up a new role as a peace envoy to the Middle East,
acknowledged in a letter to local voters that he had not spent as much time in
Sedgefield as his constituents might have liked.

Explaining his decision to stand down, he wrote: "It is one thing to ask you to
put up with my absence over the years as Prime Minister, but it is asking too
much of you for this to happen once I leave office."

Mr Blair has told Labour workers that he will return to help in the campaign,
having attended its launch after his former aide, Phil Wilson, was selected as
the party's candidate. In his letter to voters, he pledges "my ties with
Sedgefield will remain strong" and he will keep his home in the constituency. Mr
Wilson, a local miner's son, helped Mr Blair to win selection as Labour
candidate for Sedgefield in 1983. Labour campaigners introduce him to voters as
the man "taking over from Tony". He has made "saving" Aycliffe's centre a
priority.

"It is pointless saying there is not a problem because there is," Mr Wilson told
The Times as he knockled on doors of council houses in the former mining village
of Ferryhill. "To be fair to Tony, he has been pulling people together on this
for the last few months."

Meanwhile, Mr Blair will find popping back to his old constituency more
congenial if Labour manages to hold the constituency on July 19.

Nominations close today with the Greens, UK Independence Party, English
Democrats, Official Monster Raving Loony Party, and British National Party also
fielding candidates.

Result in 2005

Lab 24,429 (down 6%)

Con 5,972 (down 6.5%)

Lib Dem 4,935 (up 2.9%)

Con swing to Lab 0.3%

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                  July 4, 2007

EU sex flick rubs right up wrong way

LENGTH: 304 words



HIGHLIGHT: Conservative politicians have lined up to lambast an EU promotional
film that showcases a collection of classic sex scenes from European movies.
Entitled Film Lovers Will Love This, the 44-second montage features the sweaty
antics of 18 couples, both heterosexual and homosexual, and climaxes with the
slogan "Let's come together".


Conservative politicians have lined up to lambast an EU promotional film that
showcases a collection of classic sex scenes from European movies. Entitled Film
Lovers Will Love This, the 44-second montage features the sweaty antics of 18
couples, both heterosexual and homosexual, and climaxes with the slogan "Let's
come together".

Film Lovers Will Love This includes fleeting clips from such recent art-house
hits as Amelie and Pedro Almodovar's Bad Education. Since its debut on the
European Commission's YouTube channel last week, the EU film has been viewed a
whopping 280,000 times. By contrast the Commission's second most successful clip
- a film about humanitarian aid - has attracted less than 30,000 viewers.

However, not everyone is impressed. Godfrey Bloom of the Eurosceptic UK
Independence Party described the film as "cheap, tawdry and tacky" and demanded
to know the cost to European taxpayers. "You might say it's appropriate for them
to put out films like this," he told the Sun newspaper. "Brussels has been
screwing the UK for at least 30 years."

The film's brief shots of gay sex have also allegedly sparked a number of
complaints from Poland. Yesterday EU lawmaker Maciej Giertych, who represents
the League of Polish Families, accused the European Commission of "immoral
methods" of promotion.

Elsewhere, Conservative MEP Chris Heaton-Harris told the BBC: "They [the
European Commission] do have an image problem but I think cobbling together 44
seconds of soft porn on the internet is not a brilliant way of solving it."

The criticism prompted European Commission spokesman Martin Selmayr to hit back
at what he termed the "quasi-religious bashing of the very important cultural
diversity we have in the EU". He added: "The EU is not a bible belt. We believe
in freedom of speech and artistic expression."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2007  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               17 of 23 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                  July 4, 2007

EU sex flick rubs right the wrong way

LENGTH: 304 words



HIGHLIGHT: European Commission's film a triumph on YouTube triumph, but labelled
'cheap and tawdry' by critics.


Conservative politicians have lined up to lambast an EU promotional film that
showcases a collection of classic sex scenes from European movies. Entitled Film
Lovers Will Love This, the 44-second montage features the sweaty antics of 18
couples, both heterosexual and homosexual, and climaxes with the slogan "Let's
come together".

Film Lovers Will Love This includes fleeting clips from such recent art-house
hits as Amelie and Pedro Almodovar's Bad Education. Since its debut on the
European Commission's YouTube channel last week, the EU film has been viewed a
whopping 280,000 times. By contrast the Commission's second most successful clip
- a film about humanitarian aid - has attracted less than 30,000 viewers.

However, not everyone is impressed. Godfrey Bloom of the Eurosceptic UK
Independence Party described the film as "cheap, tawdry and tacky" and demanded
to know the cost to European taxpayers. "You might say it's appropriate for them
to put out films like this," he told the Sun newspaper. "Brussels has been
screwing the UK for at least 30 years."

The film's brief shots of gay sex have also allegedly sparked a number of
complaints from Poland. Yesterday EU lawmaker Maciej Giertych, who represents
the League of Polish Families, accused the European Commission of "immoral
methods" of promotion.

Elsewhere, Conservative MEP Chris Heaton-Harris told the BBC: "They [the
European Commission] do have an image problem but I think cobbling together 44
seconds of soft porn on the internet is not a brilliant way of solving it."

The criticism prompted European Commission spokesman Martin Selmayr to hit back
at what he termed the "quasi-religious bashing of the very important cultural
diversity we have in the EU". He added: "The EU is not a bible belt. We believe
in freedom of speech and artistic expression."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2007  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               18 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday

EU film is sex-rated

LENGTH: 99  words


BRUSSELS was accused last night of using soft porn to promote the EU.

A film entitled Let's Come Together features a host of couples in sex scenes cut
together from films made in Europe.

The 44-second clip has been seen 18,000 times and is the most watched on EUTube,
a website championing the EU.

Last night MEP Godfrey Bloom, of anti-Euro party UKIP, called the campaign
"cheap, tawdry and tacky".

He added: "You might say it is appropriate for them to put out films like this -
Brussels has been screwing the UK for at least 30 years."

Mr Bloom wants to know how much the campaign cost EU taxpayers.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Come clean on national insurance

SECTION: CITY; Letters to the City Editor; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 96 words


Sir - John Whittaker of UKIP is the latest, in his letter published last week,
to promote the idea that national insurance should be merged with income tax. He
was responding to the article by Madsen Pirie, which contained the same idea.

Those who advocate this, however, never acknowledge that liability for national
insurance ceases with the drawing of a state pension. Is it their intention that
pensioners should lose this benefit? If so, they really ought to come clean. If
not, the means by which the benefit will be preserved should be spelled out.

E R Chalker,

London SE1

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

EU DIRTY LOT;
Bizarre sex video to aid Euro-harmony

BYLINE: by IAIN BURCHELL

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 252 words


EUROPRATS have released a saucy internet sex tape in a bid to make the EU a
turn-on.

The sizzling YouTube video from the European Commission shows 18 couples romping
and ends with the line: "Let's come together".

Brussels pen-pushers are counting on the raunchy movie, called Film Lovers Will
Love This, to stir up interest in their work.

It starts with a lust-crazed couple tearing each other's clothes off.

Their steamy bedroom romp is so frenzied it sets glasses and bottles wobbling on
a nearby shelf.

Other lovers are seen getting down and dirty in a public toilet, an office and a
lift.

Euro chiefs included two gay couples to appeal to as wide an audience as
possible.

An EU spokesman insisted the clips "explain better what the EU is doing".

He even compared the video to Paris Hilton's infamous home sex movie, but
admitted: "We can't really compete with Paris Hilton yet."

Stuffy critics have slammed the EU for resorting to dirty tactics.

Maciej Giertych, an MEP with the conservative League of Polish Families, accused
the EU of using "immoral methods"to promote itself.

But Godfrey Bloom, a UK Independence party MEP, said: "I suppose this film is
appropriate.

"The EU has been screwing Britain for the past 30 years."

The sexy scenes were put together using footage from Amelie and All About My
Mother, both films supported by the EU.

Other YouTube videos posted by the EU aren't quite so exciting though.

They cover topics like the reform of the common market organisation for sugar
and the EU's anti-fraud office.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EUTURN ME ON: One of many sexy scenes from the film

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

EU DIRTY LOT;
Bizarre sex video to aid Euro-harmony

BYLINE: by IAIN BURCHELL

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 252 words


EUROPRATS have released a saucy internet sex tape in a bid to make the EU a
turn-on.

The sizzling YouTube video from the European Commission shows 18 couples romping
and ends with the line: "Let's come together".

Brussels pen-pushers are counting on the raunchy movie, called Film Lovers Will
Love This, to stir up interest in their work.

It starts with a lust-crazed couple tearing each other's clothes off.

Their steamy bedroom romp is so frenzied it sets glasses and bottles wobbling on
a nearby shelf.

Other lovers are seen getting down and dirty in a public toilet, an office and a
lift.

Euro chiefs included two gay couples to appeal to as wide an audience as
possible.

An EU spokesman insisted the clips "explain better what the EU is doing".

He even compared the video to Paris Hilton's infamous home sex movie, but
admitted: "We can't really compete with Paris Hilton yet."

Stuffy critics have slammed the EU for resorting to dirty tactics.

Maciej Giertych, an MEP with the conservative League of Polish Families, accused
the EU of using "immoral methods"to promote itself.

But Godfrey Bloom, a UK Independence party MEP, said: "I suppose this film is
appropriate.

"The EU has been screwing Britain for the past 30 years."

The sexy scenes were put together using footage from Amelie and All About My
Mother, both films supported by the EU.

Other YouTube videos posted by the EU aren't quite so exciting though.

They cover topics like the reform of the common market organisation for sugar
and the EU's anti-fraud office.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EUTURN ME ON: One of many sexy scenes from the film

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  July 1, 2007

Gasps all round over the EU's dirty movie

BYLINE: Nicola Smith

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 326 words


THE latest promotional

video from Brussels shows European citizens engaged

in enthusiastic congress,

but it is not the sort of union the founding fathers had

in mind.

The film, available on the European commission's space on YouTube, the video
website, shows 18 couples having sex.

The video opens with a man and woman ripping each other's clothes off in the
bedroom while bottles rattle on a shelf. In the interests of sexual equality,
two of the couples are gay.

In an attempt at humour that might go down better in Belgium than in Britain,
the film climaxes with quivering bedheads and loud orgasms. It closes with the
line: "Let's come together."

The video is part of a campaign by Margot Wallstrom, the communications
commissioner, to boost interest in the workings

of the EU. Other videos among the 44 posted on the website cover the reform of
the common market organisation for sugar and the EU's anti-fraud office.

But it is the video entitled Film Lovers Will Love This that is attracting most
attention.

The scenes were compiled by the commission's press unit, using footage from
Amelie and All About My Mother. Both films were supported by the EU.

Wallstrom's spokesman was initially unaware of

the video's presence on the site and denied it was in questionable taste.

"This is not pornography," he said as the video started, but he appeared less
sure as he watched it. "Well, what can I say? It's a question of taste. It
doesn't always have to be about press releases. These clips explain better what
the EU is doing."

But he added: "We can't really compete with Paris Hilton yet."

An internet sex video set Hilton on the road to fame, but the EU's efforts have
prompted ridicule.

Maciej Giertych, an MEP with the conservative League of Polish Families, accused
the EU of using "immoral methods" to promote itself.

But Godfrey Bloom, a UK Independence party MEP, said: "I suppose this film is
appropriate. The EU has been screwing Britain for the past 30 years."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 23 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              July 1, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

As other leaders admit what Gordon Brown won't about the new EU treaty, we
demand a vote no

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer and Jason Groves

SECTION: NEWS; 16

LENGTH: 576  words


GORDON Brown will face renewed demands for a referendum on the new EU treaty
when European leaders meet to flesh out the details this month.

The Prime Minister, who has insisted voters will not have the final say on the
document agreed by Tony Blair in his final days in office, could be forced into
a humiliating U-turn when further details emerge.

European leaders are meeting in Lisbon on July 23 to hammer out the detailed
text of the treaty, which critics claim is just a rehash of the EU constitution
rejected two years ago.

Eurosceptics say a line-by-line examination will finally prove what they have
claimed all along - that the two documents are almost identical.

That will add to the growing pressure on Mr Brown to stand by Labour's 2005
manifesto commitment to give voters a say on the EU constitution in a national
referendum.

The new Premier already faces a strong public call for a national vote.

The Sunday Express has been flooded with coupons backing a campaign launched
last week calling on the Government to give the people a say.

While the British Government has attempted to argue that the revised
constitutional treaty is fundamentally different from the old version, other EU
leaders have been more honest.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel said last week: "The substance of the
constitution is preserved. That is a fact.

The fundamentals of the constitution have been maintained in large part. We have
renounced everything that makes people think of a state, like the flag and the
national anthem."

Her Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier insisted that the mandate approved
by the EU will "preserve the substance of the constitutional treaty".

And Spanish Prime Minister Jose Zapatero said: "A great part of the content of
the European constitution is captured in the new treaties."

Commenting on the need for a referendum in his own country, Irish premier Bertie
Ahern said: "Given the fact that there was strong legal advice that the draft
constitution in 2004 would require a referendum in Ireland, and given the fact
that these changes haven't made any dramatic change to the substance of what was
agreed back in 2004, I think it is likely that a referendum will be held . . .
thankfully they haven't changed the substance - 90 per cent of it is still
there."

Danish PM Anders Fogh Rasmussen stated: "All the symbolic elements are gone, and
that which really matters - the core - is left."

Finland's Europe Minister Astrid Thors pointed out there was "nothing from the
original institutional package that has been changed".

Even EU Communications Commissioner Margot Wallstrom called the new treaty
"essentially the same proposal as the old constitution".

Ukip leader and MEP Nigel Farage said: "Time and again we have been lied to by
our own politicians and here we have another example.

"This is the constitution by a different name and yet our Government, knowing
they will lose, deny us a referendum. Politicians across Europe are openly
telling the voters what this really is, so why can't ours?

"Their desire to bulldoze through this treaty without any regard for what the
British people think is contemptible."

The formal treaty negotiations will mainly be conducted in secret - an
arrangement put in place primarily to help Mr Brown.

EU foreign ministers will discuss a 150-page "draft treaty text" in September,
with most diplomats expecting the new treaty to be ready for signature by heads
of state and governments in Lisbon in October.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PRESSURE: Brown may do U-turn

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved
