
                                1 of 5 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                January 28, 2004

Unlikely venture for Belgo's Cool Hand Luke: Appointment of tax-hating
entrepreneur Johnson to chairmanship of Channel 4 shocks television business

BYLINE: Julia Finch and Richard Wray

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 23

LENGTH: 808 words


Luke Johnson, who lists his pet hate as "paying tax", is an unlikely choice for
the top job at publicly owned Channel 4. Mr Johnson's most recent business
column in the Sunday Telegraph focused on the best and worst form of ownership
of assets. "It seems to me that the least efficient form of ownership is by the
state," he wrote.

The entrepreneur, who in 1997 backed the relaunch of the Sunday Business
newspaper, once nominated Rupert Murdoch as his business hero: "He has made a
lot of enemies, and some may say that he has dumbed things down a bit, but he
still has a lot of highbrow stuff among his empire."

Mr Johnson will now be heading a business which his father, the rightwing
columnist Paul Johnson, has regularly singled out as responsible for declining
moral standards. Johnson senior once referred to former Channel 4 boss Sir
Michael Grade as the UK's "pornographer in chief".

Like his father, Luke has a reputation for arrogance. A grammar school boy from
Slough, he is now one of the City best-known deal makers, regarded as tough and
abrasive, with fingers in all sorts of different pies - and a touch too clever
for his own good.

A decision to put himself and one of his businesses on primetime television
backfired badly. Luke Johnson worked as a waiter in the series Back to the
Floor, but was unable to empathise with his staff or the camera crew and ended
up ripping off his microphone and telling the BBC producer, on air, to "shove"
his programme.

He read medicine at Oxford, and in his spare time organised parties that became
so raucous and successful he decided they could be money-spinners. That turned
into his first venture, as he organised parties in Cambridge and Bristol on a
franchise basis.

After a job in advertising with BMP, he worked for Jonathan Aitken, then chief
executive at TV-am. From there, he moved to become a media analyst at City bank
Kleinwort Benson.

In 1989, aged 28, he linked up with former university chum and fellow medic Hugh
Osmond to find bombed-out companies. They first lighted on Star Computer Group,
valued at £2m, and used it to launch an audacious reverse takeover of
PizzaExpress in 1993.

It was PizzaExpresss which laid the foundations of his fortune and earned his
nickname, Cool Hand Luke. Most of his business interests have since centred on
the restaurant business, and he has built chains including Belgo, Strada and
Bierodrome, as well as taking over upmarket eateries like the Ivy and Le
Caprice.

In the mid-1990s, Luke Johnson decided it was time to diversify into nightclubs.
First came the Gargoyle, beneath a PizzaExpress on Fulham Road, and he then
opened the Climax Club just up the road.

Invitations to the opening night were modelled on massage service cards posted
in telephone booths, while guests were promised champagne and "very rude food".

This was to be a club where "women always come first", Mr Johnson declared at
the time.

Sadly, those who attended the opening night were pre maturely ejected after a
police raid soon after 11pm. My Kinda Town, Johnson's group at the time, had
forgotten to obtain a late licence.

The club did not survive for long. But Mr Johnson pushed on with the
redevelopment of the Cobden Working Men's Club, which was built just north of
Notting Hill in 1882 by Fabian Lord Cobden. Mr Johnson promised to create the
swankiest joint in town, patronised by the likes of Kate Moss, Malcolm McClaren
and Will Self.

Jade Jagger was on the membership committee, but the club's profitability has
collapsed recently - a development Mr Johnson has blamed on media people cutting
back on their spending.

Mr Johnson also poured cash into internet ventures and became a non-executive of
NewMediaSPARK, an internet "incubator" which was supposed to find new companies
and turn them into successes.

He also paired up with Mr Osmond again and founded another incubator, e-xentric,
which collapsed when the dotcom bubble burst; e-Xentric was eventually sold for
£1. The pair were known as Hughie and Luey and even wrote a book together,
Betting to Win.

Another venture, Intrinsic Value, was designed to identify more undervalued
companies. But there was little action and Mr Johnson subsequently departed. He
has since acrimoniously fallen out with Mr Osmond, the businessman behind the
Punch Taverns group. The duo rowed when they both tried to buy thousands of pubs
from Whitbread; Mr Osmond won after invoking an old "non-compete" agreement.

Mr Johnson is aggressively anti-smoking and has been known to storm out of
parties when too many people have lit up. In his writing, he has often
criticised the tobacco industry, asking why protesters target oil and drug firms
when Big Tobacco kills so many.

He also once considered standing for the UK Independence Party.


LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                                2 of 5 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           January 20, 2004, Tuesday

Max Clifford switches sides to keep Europe out of Britain

SECTION: FeaturesLondon spy Pg. 21

LENGTH: 259 words

With his regular menu of "Tory sleaze" stories, PR fixer Max Clifford, then an
outspoken supporter of Tony Blair, was instrumental in nailing down the coffin
lid on John Major's government.

But now the publicist - whose scalps included David Mellor, Jerry Hayes and
Piers Merchant - has decided to work for one of Blair's political rivals.

The UK Independence Party has just signed a pounds 100,000 deal for Clifford to
run their press operation for six months, in advance of June's European
elections. He is expected to fill the tabloids with "hard-hitting stories"
concerning the major parties. "I would not have got involved with UKIP unless I
agreed with them on the question of Europe," Clifford says. "I feel very
strongly that we should guard our own destiny."

Clifford joins a growing cast of big hitters in the UKIP backroom. In May, Spy
revealed that the party had signed up Dick Morris, Bill Clinton's former spin
doctor, to work as its campaign strategist. "Dick is working on our campaigning
style, whereas Max will have day-to-day involvement with the media, an area
where we have been bumbling amateurs," says UKIP MEP Nigel Farage.

"Max's particular skill is in placing stories about our rivals, and in
countering the negative stories that they are increasingly putting out about
us."

Spy understands that Clifford's pounds 100,000 fee is being met by one
(anonymous) UKIP member. The party - which has three MEPs - hopes to increase
its share of the vote (6.7 per cent in 1999) to 20 per cent in the forthcoming
election.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                                3 of 5 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 20, 2004, Tuesday

MEDIA: WORD ON THE STREET

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 479 words


Colin Pillinger, the scientist as respected for his mutton-chop sideburns as for
his work on Beagle 2, is at war with Brian Sewell. The London Evening Standard
writer argued the other day that space exploration was pointless and "we have
been seduced by nerds". Sewell had little sympathy for Pillinger's difficulties
with Beagle. "I cannot have been alone in chuckling when his toy failed to phone
home, and I chuckled more at the pathetic explanations for its silence." The
scientist, however, suspects a secret motive for the attack. The pair appeared
together on a motoring programme, as Pillinger pointed out in a letter to the
paper. "Just because I beat you in the Jeremy Clarkson burn-up competition in
Top Gear," he wrote, "there is no need to wish ill luck to all those valiant
people who tried to put Britain on Mars."

Max Clifford (left), the PR man who creates such questionable PR for the
public-relations industry, always claims credit for helping to bring down John
Major's government. He says his constant supply of sleaze stories about MPs on
the make (and in the sack) were a factor in booting the Tories out. Perhaps Tony
Blair ought to be worried - for Clifford has abandoned New Labour. He has been
signed up by the UK Independence Party to get its message across for the
European elections in June. "When it comes to Europe, it is not about being
left-wing or right-wing," says Clifford.

Further evidence last week that the Daily Mail is the paper that likes it both
ways. On Monday, the controversialist Melanie Phillips wrote a piece on page 10
under the headline: "Global warming or global fraud? Britain's top scientist
says climate change is a greater threat than terrorism. But why should we
believe claims based entirely on bogus science?" Five pages later, the paper's
news pages declared: "Don't worry, it won't be long till the heatwave",
reporting gloomily that "instability" caused by - guess what - global warming
could lead to "forest fires, crop losses, water shortages and heat-related
deaths".

Who needs consistency? The Times, 12 January: "Salmon shunned despite price cuts
and reassurances... Supermarket shelves remained stacked high with salmon steaks
and smoked salmon strips as wary shoppers plumped for fresh tuna..." The Times,
13 January: "Supermarket chains were pleasantly surprised to find salmon leaping
off the shelves at the weekend... Asda yesterday reported a 20 per cent increase
in all its salmon ranges."

Peter McKay had an amusing dig at the "childish" attitude of the "Sabbath gutter
press", which bought pictures of David Beckham and his wife allegedly getting
frisky in the back of a car. Wait a moment... The Mail on Sunday chose to run
the pics all over page three. Sure, the paper comes out on the Sabbath; but
"gutter press"? Was that a wise description of a sister title, Peter?

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                                4 of 5 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                January 7, 2004

Eurosceptics blame pro Europeans for bombs

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 239 words


Hardline Eurosceptics were condemned for "despicable" behaviour yesterday after
they issued an extraordinary statement warning pro-Europeans that they had
themselves to blame for an anti-EU letter bomb campaign.

The UK Independence party which has three MEPs, told pro-Europeans that they
were paying the "price of forcing a political idea on people".

Nigel Farage, a UKIP Euro- MP, insisted he deplored the letter bomb campaign
which targeted the Manchester office of MEP Gary Titley on Monday. A German and
a Spanish MEP were also targeted, days after Romano Prodi, the Italian president
of the European commission, opened a package that burst into flames at his home
in Bologna.

But Mr Farage horrified pro-Europeans when he said: "We have spent 10 years
warning that the route the EU has chosen for itself, to swallow up nation states
without giving the people the final say, was destined to end in civil unrest and
violence."

He added that unless the EU listened to the people "there is a very real danger
of an accelerating wave of attacks, as more extremist groups resort to
violence".

A chorus of condemnation was led by Mr Titley, leader of the Labour group in the
European parliament. He said: "The party that makes excuses for would-be
murderers in the middle of a terrorist campaign against the European parliament
deserves to be shunned by all democrats."

Italian letter bombs, page 13


LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                                5 of 5 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 7, 2004, Wednesday

PARLIAMENT AND POLITICS: EUROPE - EUROSCEPTICS CRITICISED OVER LETTER-BOMB
EXCUSE'

BYLINE: BEN RUSSELL POLITICAL CORRESPENDENT Menzies Campbell: Nothing justifies
bombing campaign

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 389 words


EUROSCEPTICS WERE condemned yesterday for saying that a letter- bomb campaign
against European politicians was the "price of forcing a political ideal on
people".

The UK Independence Party, which is campaigning for Britain's withdrawal from
the European Union, said it could "understand the reasons behind" the attacks on
EU officials.

Nigel Farage, the party's MEP, warned of an "accelerating wave of violence" if
groups opposed to the EU were "denied democracy".

Police are searching for the terrorists responsible for sending a spate of
letter bombs over the past two weeks to European politicians and officials in
Manchester, Frankfurt, Bologna and Brussels.

The UKIP was criticised by Gary Titley, the leader of Britian's Labour MEPs, who
was the target of a letter bomb on Monday. He said: "The party that makes
excuses for would-be murderers in the middle of a terrorist campaign against the
European Parliament deserves to be shunned by all democrats."

Sir Menzies Campbell, the Liberal Democrat foreign affairs spokesman, said:
"Nothing, but nothing, justifies actions of this kind and politicians committed
to the democratic process should be unequivocal in their condemnation."

UKIP said that it "deplored" the bombing campaign. But it added: "Nigel Farage
said that this prediction was now coming true and that although the party
deplored the bombs, it could understand the reasons behind them."

Mr Farage said: "We have spent 10 years warning that the route the EU has chosen
for itself, to swallow up nation states without giving the people of Europe the
final say, was destined to end in civil unrest and violence. We can only hope
that the EU comes to its senses and listens to the people. If it fails to do so,
then there is clearly a very real danger of an accelerating wave of attacks as
more and more extremist groups resort to violence as they are denied democracy."

Mr Farage said he condemned the bombers, but said that he "understood the
reasons" behind the campaign.

The devices are believed to have been posted in Bologna, where Romano Prodi, the
European Commission president, was the target of three attacks. The campaign has
been linked to an Italian anarchist group, although Italian police have been
concentrating their investigation on pan-European anarchists.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd
