
                               1 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             April 30, 2004, Friday

UKIP candidate Maloney provokes gay backlash

BYLINE: By CHARLIE METHVEN

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 25

LENGTH: 250 words

The London mayoral election, with usual suspects Livingstone and Norris to the
fore, is proving a pretty drab affair.

So perhaps we should be grateful for the colourful presence of the UK
Independence Party's Union flag-suited candidate, Frank Maloney.

Having only just jumped aboard his unconventional battlebus - a Del Boy-style
Reliant Robin - Maloney has already committed what could prove to be the first
of a string of gaffes.

In an interview with the Hampstead and Highgate Express, the Peckham-born boxing
promoter says that he won't be campaigning in Camden Town because "there are too
many gays" there.

His comments, it's fair to say, haven't gone down a storm with the capital's gay
community and one organisation has already demanded that he stand down.

"Maloney is a dangerous extremist and should resign or be sacked," says James
Davenport, chairman of Gay Conservatives.

The man himself remains unapologetic. "I made those comments as a joke," he
insists. "I'm from the boxing world and we're not a very politically correct
bunch of people, but we all get on well."

UKIP, for its part, is standing by its candidate. Nigel Farage MEP says:
"Frank's not a career politician; he's the chirpy chap that he is. He's an
honest bloke who doesn't try to put a spin on things."

Maloney has now proudly reproduced the offending Ham & High article on his
official website, which also features a link to chavscum.co.uk, "a humorous
guide to Britain's burgeoning peasant underclass".

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               2 of 20 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 30, 2004, Friday

HOWARD CLAPTRAP RANT

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE BY OONAGH BLACKMAN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 219 words

HIGHLIGHT: GAFFE: Howard


MICHAEL Howard launched an amazing rant against the EU yesterday, using the
extremist language of the euro- sceptic far-right.

"We don't want to be part of a country called Europe," he blustered, adding that
it was "a one-way street to closer integration".

The Tory leader's outburst echoes the scaremongering claptrap of the UK
Independence Party, which wants Britain to withdraw from the EU.

He said the Tories would reject an EU constitution because it would give Europe
the "trappings of statehood". But as he launched the party's campaign for the
euro elections in June, Mr Howard was hit by an embarrassing gaffe.

His campaign leaflets wrongly stated that Mr Blair would NOT hold a referendum
on the EU constitution - when in fact the PM had already given the green light
for a referendum 10 days ago.

At a stroke, Mr Blair's decision had kicked away one of the main planks of the
Tories' argument.

As piles of the misleading leaflets were shredded, Mr Howard had to go back to
the drawing board for his speech in Manchester. In the end, all he had to offer
was a string of damp pledges about cutting EU regulations.

The BBC website last night described the Tory campaign as having "all the
excitement of Christmas Day after a burglar stole the presents and ate the
turkey".

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                               3 of 20 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 30, 2004, Friday

HOWARD CLAPTRAP RANT

BYLINE: OONAGH BLACKMAN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 222 words

HIGHLIGHT: GAFFE: Howard yesterday


MICHAEL Howard launched an amazing rant against the EU yesterday, using the
extremist language of the euro- sceptic far-right.

"We don't want to be part of a country called Europe," he blustered, adding that
it was "a one-way street to closer integration".

The Tory leader's outburst echoes the scaremongering claptrap of the UK
Independence Party, which wants Britain to withdraw from the EU.

He said the Tories would reject an EU constitution because it would give Europe
the "trappings of statehood". But as he launched the party's campaign for the
euro elections in June, Mr Howard was hit by an embarrassing gaffe.

His campaign leaflets wrongly stated that Mr Blair would NOT hold a referendum
on the EU constitution - when in fact the PM had already given the green light
for a referendum 10 days ago.

And as piles of the misleading leaflets were shredded, all Mr Howard had left to
offer was a string of damp pledges about cutting EU regulations.

The BBC website last night described the Tory campaign as having "all the
excitement of Christmas Day after a burglar stole the presents and ate the
turkey".

A POLL for YouGov out today found 51 per cent of people would vote No in a
referendum on accepting the EU constitution, 21 per cent said they didn't know
and five per cent wouldn't vote.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                               4 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 27, 2004, Tuesday

Yes: This new constitution is not about a European superstate

BYLINE: By Lord Haskins

SECTION: News; EU constitution: The business debate: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 786 words

BRITISH business has enjoyed great benefits from our membership of the European
Union. The European Single Market, the largest international free trade area,
has opened up our markets, improved our productivity and competitiveness and
offered our customers more choice and value.

I would contend that membership of the EU has been a significant factor in
reversing our relative long-term economic decline.

The impending enlargement of the EU from 15 to 25 members requires a radical
review of the way the single market and other European institutions work, and
this is why I welcome the EU constitution, and I will work to see it is adopted.

It is one of the supreme ironies of the current debate over the constitution,
and the forthcoming referendum, that we have Margaret Thatcher to thank for
driving through a deal on the Single Market in 1986.

She decided not to put the Single European Act to a vote of the people because
to do so would have been to undermine Parliament, even though the implications
for Britain were more significant than those in the 2003 constitution.

She rightly made an historic concession that for the first time the European
courts should have primacy over the British courts in order to make the European
single market fair and effective. No such dramatic concession is envisaged in
the EU constitution.

Nevertheless the constitution is an important and necessary step in the
development of the enlarged European Union.

The main objective is to make the management of the enlarged EU fair and
effective so that all 25 member states can benefit both economically and
politically.

The new proposals are more democratic in that the voting system would recognise
population differences. Qualified majority voting would apply in most issues, as
long as both the Council and the Parliament were of the same mind.

A unanimous vote in the Council of Ministers will still be required in three
crucial areas - income tax, defence and foreign policy - if EU legislation were
to be introduced.

However the opponents of the constitution, whilst seeming to ignore this
essential safeguard, criticise the extension of QMV into areas such as
immigration and asylum. The only way of developing a system to manage asylum and
immigration must be through the EU. The constitution will also rationalise,
simplify and clarify the treaties which have been introduced over the past 49
years to make them more comprehensible and workable.

At present the responsibility for running the presidency of the EU rotates
between individual member states every six months. This somewhat erratic form of
governance throws a huge burden on the smaller members and the professional
quality of the process is, to say the least, variable, unpredictable and
inconsistent.

The constitution also makes it quite clear what the EU is not about, which
should satisfy the concerns of the sceptics. It is not about a European
superstate and reaffirms that the powers vested in the EU emanate from the
member states rather than the other way round, as alarmists suggest.

One of the shortcomings of the forthcoming referendum is that most voters will
choose to make their voting judgments on their wider assessments of the
benefits, or otherwise, of continuing membership.

Indeed the most vocal opponents of the constitution, led by the United Kingdom
Independence Party, are quite open in campaigning for Britain to withdraw
altogether from EU membership.

Others, including Michael Howard, the leader of the Conservative Party, remain
in favour of membership but only if there is a substantial renegotiation of the
existing conditions of membership with a view to reducing the obligations under
various Acts and treaty commitments made by, among others Mrs Thatcher and John
Major.

My response to Michael Howard is that it is both wrong and impracticable to
carry out an extensive renegotiation of treaty obligations.

Wrong because it undermines treaty commitments and impracticable because he
would have to get the unanimous consent of the other 24 member states for
establishing radically different and unique conditions of membership for
Britain. If, as seems likely, Mr Howard is frustrated in his objectives, he
would presumably have to seek to withdraw altogether from the EU. People who
want this to happen should vote for the constitution which will give member
states the right to do so for the first time.

A positive vote on the EU constitution should finally dissipate the destructive
scepticism which has prevailed in Britain about our relations with Europe.

Lord Haskins is a former Chairman of Northern Foods who has served as an adviser
to successive governments on food and agriculture.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               5 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 27, 2004, Tuesday

Edward Fox champions UKIP cause

BYLINE: by Charlie Methven

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 23

LENGTH: 154 words

Undeniably worthy though the UK Independence Party is, it has rarely been
associated with the world of showbusiness.

So Spy is delighted to learn that it has signed up one of our foremost luvvies,
Edward Fox, in time for June's European elections.

Fox, best known for his performances in Day of the Jackal, The Battle of Britain
and A Bridge Too Far, has just been appointed a patron of the anti-EU party.

"Voting UKIP is the only way to convince smug politicians that the people are
heartily sick of being controlled by unelected, unaccountable and unsackable
foreign bureaucrats," he said yesterday.

To be fair, the actor is hardly a newcomer to Eurosceptic politics. He keenly
supported the late Sir James Goldsmith's Referendum Party at the 1997 general
election. More recently, he was a vocal backer of the "metric martyrs", the
market traders who demanded the right to sell their goods in pounds and ounces.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               6 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 26, 2004

ALL STRANGELY QUIET ON THE EUROPEAN ELECTION FRONT

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 109 words


ISN'T it quite extraordinary that on June 10 we have the European Election and
to date the political parties have done nothing? It is barely mentioned in the
press. Yet the new European Constitution is draconian. It amounts to some 350
pages but we and Brown and Blair have no say.

The UK will be relegated to the status of a province in the Federal States of
Europe and Scotland a region. Why? Because the EU becomes a legal state, our
overlord.

Already 80 per cent of the legislation from Westminster comes from Brussels, and
our politicians have no option but to rubber stamp its laws.

Peter Neilson, UK Independence Party, Lockerbie

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               7 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             April 23, 2004, Friday

Doh! Archbish, come join us in stoopidland Notebook

BYLINE: BY SAM LEITH

SECTION: FeaturesComment Pg. 28

LENGTH: 636 words

The Church of England never seems to get it quite right, do they? For a long
time, they only seemed to get the sort of archbishop who comes out looking
wispy-haired and daffy. Fewer and fewer people went to church, and the godless
regarded the whole shebang not with hostility but with benign amusement.

So they went to Plan B. They decided to try out having a clever archbishop. Now
they have Rowan Williams. He is a man as brilliant, godly and charismatic as you
could possibly hope for - and nobody can understand a blimming word he says.

That's not to say we aren't convinced he's on to something. Even to a heathen
like me, he's one of the most fascinating figures in public life. But in an
environment with little or no tolerance for someone saying, quietly, something
complicated, we haven't the patience to get to the bottom of it.

As Dr Williams himself puts it: "The evidence suggests to many that obedience to
a complex truth suffered from a sense of urgency that made attention harder."
Or, as a senior sub-editor would put it: "For ****'s sake, what headline am I
supposed to put on this? We go to press in 30 seconds."

His inaugural lecture provoked baffled admiration. It is formidably good; but
I'm only sure of that because an accident of my job meant I had to read it
through five or six times. When he commended Philip Pullman to public attention
(his foxy line was that Pullman could help even atheists think harder about the
nature of the god in whom they don't believe), the headlines boiled down to
"Archbish Praises Atheist Loony". Now, mindful of the "bearded Lefty" tag with
which he unwisely lumbered himself, we tend to reduce any of his public
pronouncements to "Archbish Slates Government".

Dr Williams doubtless watches himself on Newsnight and shouts "Doh!" at the TV.
But if you're the Archbishop of Canterbury, to be contented with the purity of a
Cassandra is a culpable vanity. You have to decide whether you're speaking to
the archivist theologians of the future; or to your people now. The man of the
cloth should cut his cloth accordingly. Come and join us in stoopidland, Dr
Williams. You might like it.  * SPEAKING of stoopid, the Labour MEP Richard
Corbett dropped my jaw with a letter to the Guardian on Wednesday, saying that
the "modest set of proposals" (he hasn't read Swift) in the EU constitution
"spells out the principles on which the European Union is founded: solidarity,
diversity and cooperation where it benefits us all". I don't feel strongly about
the issue either way, and would probably rather enjoy being governed by a panel
of Faceless Brussels Bureaucrats. But I remember Orwell's injunction to beware
of politicians bearing abstract nouns. If the case for the constitution is
couched in such intelligence-insulting humbug, I shall stand shoulder to
shoulder with the worst bores in UKIP.  * NOT since the high days of Hammer have
films been so full of trad movie monsters: zombies; vampires; werewolves;
misunderstood prop-forwards with bolts through their necks; Starsky and Hutch.
Doubtless some will ascribe all this to anxieties about September 11.

I prefer to think it's just because the old monsters are the best ones.

Last week I stumbled across a wonderful vampire novel from half a century ago.
Richard Matheson's I Am Legend describes the life of a man stranded in his
suburban house after everyone else in the world has turned into a vampire and
wants to eat him.

Pulp is a different sort of thing to literary fiction. But just because pheasant
doesn't taste like roast beef doesn't mean you can't acquire a taste for it.
Matheson has the expected surfeit of rhetorical questions and exclamation marks
- but he also has a laconic intelligence that recalls Jim Thompson at his best.
I can't recommend I Am Legend too highly.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               8 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 23, 2004, Friday

EU REFERENDUM: NO' CAMPAIGNERS DESPERATE TO SIDELINE HARDLINE EUROSCEPTICS

BYLINE: BEN RUSSELL POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT Anti-constitution figures want
radical reform of EU

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 416 words


CAMPAIGNERS OPPOSED to the proposed European constitution are preparing a
"softly softly" strategy to counter attempts by Tony Blair to turn the
referendum on the issue into a wholesale vote on Britain's future role in
Europe.

Leaders of the embryonic "no" campaign are desperate to sideline hardline
Eurosceptics who could aid Tony Blair's strategy of turning a referendum on the
treaty into a full-scale poll on Britain's future place in the EU.

Senior figures want to exclude the UK Independence Party and other figures
vehemently opposed to Britain's membership of the EU in favour of a "positive
vote" for radical reform in Brussels.

They want to demolish Mr Blair's claim that a "no" vote in the referendum,
expected in autumn next year, will consign Britain to a form of "associate
membership" permanently on the sidelines of Europe.

Instead they want to argue that a "no" vote is a positive vote for a different
type of treaty. One source said: "There will be no question of UKIP being part
of that campaign."

Market research by potential leading members of the "no" lobby is said to
suggest that Mr Blair cannot win a referendum on the detail of the constitution
itself.

Michael Howard, the Conservative leader, has already set out his battle lines
for the campaign, insisting that a vote against the constitutional treaty will
leave the existing institutions of Europe untouched.

The anti-euro No Campaign disbanded after the decision by Gordon Brown to rule
out early entry to the European single currency. But talks are continuing
between a disparate group of business leaders prominent in the anti-euro
campaign, Eurosceptic Labour MPs and Conservatives. The participants hope to set
up a cross-party group which can run the anti-constitution campaign.

Senior figures are confident of easily raising the pounds 5m allowed for a
campaign, arguing that even pro-single currency figures from the business world
are alarmed at the possible effects of a "yes" vote on the constitution. One
source said: "We are going to be able to raise millions without trouble."

Central to the new grouping is thought to be Alex Hickman, a little known figure
who served as chief executive of the Business for Sterling Group and is said to
be respected by all the "concentric circles' of opinion likely to form a new
"no" campaign. Matthew McGregor, the former head of the pro-referendum Vote 2004
campaign is also likely to be a leading figure in any campaign.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               9 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 23, 2004, Friday

FAR FROM EMBARRASSING THE TORIES ON EUROPE, BLAIR HAS ONLY SUCCEEDED IN UNITING
THEM

BYLINE: MICHAEL BROWN

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1175 words


Europe threatens to be the same political graveyard for Tony Blair's premiership
- as it was for both John Major and Margaret Thatcher. And if Michael Howard was
supposed to be locked up in his Tory box, bound and gagged by a wily Prime
Minister, until after the next general election, the Opposition leader's body
language does not exactly suggest a broken man. In fact, far from being
wrong-footed, it is Mr Howard who ends this week with party morale enhanced -
and the added bonus of regaining the support of a tabloid newspaper.

It was all supposed to be so different. Clever Mr Blair was planning to park the
whole issue of Europe safely in the political long grass. Instead, rather than
neutralising the issue, he has actually done more to inflame matters and finds
himself facing, rather than posing, awkward questions from the media and from
his political opponents. As a consequence, it is the Tory party that now seems
more unified than before, with Labour Europhiles such as Peter Mandelson
noticeably sullen and strangely silent.

Mr Howard gets the credit, from the Opposition benches, for forcing one of the
biggest U-turns in government policy since the Second World War. He can also
make much of the Tory line about the Prime Minister, "You can't believe a word
he says." This U-turn has also ensured that Europe will be more of a live issue
between now and the next general election than was likely before this policy
change.

The raising of the argument about Mr Blair's personal honesty, integrity and
trustworthiness has contributed to the irritation of Europhile Tories, such as
Lord Heseltine and David Curry, driving them back into the arms of Mr Howard. Mr
Blair said at his press conference yesterday that he wanted Tory Europhiles to
take the battle to their own party leadership. That most emphatically is now
unlikely to happen. Mr Blair has done more for Tory unity on Europe than Mr
Howard could have hoped. And to have ruined the chance of a cross-party alliance
on a "yes" vote on a European issue is a further strategic blunder.

The Tories now enter the forthcoming European elections with even more fervour
than they had prior to Mr Blair's U-turn. The confusions and demoralisations on
the part of the Labour Europhiles make it possible that the Tories can improve
on the 1999 euro-election results. One party insider was already becoming
worried that the media would have tired of the Tories if they had continued to
base the whole of their campaign on nothing except simply calling for a
referendum, and Tory Europhiles would have become irritable. Now, both
Europhiles and sceptics are united in enjoying Mr Blair's discomfort.

Turnout among Labour voters, according to many in Tory HQ, is expected to be
further depressed, while the Tory vote is now expected to be maximised on the
basis of Mr Howard's energetic performances. There are few examples in British
domestic politics where U-turns have resulted in improved positions for the
government of the day. True, the Major government probably staved off defeat in
1992 with the retreat on the poll tax, but it still lost over 40 MPs in the
process. The Wilson and Heath governments hold the record for the most policy
U-turns, but much good they did either of them when they subsequently faced the
voters.

"Not a bad week's work," said one jubilant Central Office insider. The sense of
euphoria in the Tory party could not be further from the Blair calculation that
this would pull the rug from under the Tory feet. The so-called "shooting their
fox" scenario shows no sign of materialising. The debate, reinforced at the
Prime Minister's press conference, seems to hinge on only one question - and it
is more of a dilemma for Mr Blair than for Mr Howard. What if the voters say
"no"?

But Mr Blair has not even begun to think through the possible consequences of a
"no" vote. First he tried to equivocate by invoking the Irish parallel after
they voted the "wrong" way over the Nice Treaty. This raised the suspicion that,
after fudging some kind of compromise at the edges, he would simply hold another
referendum in the hope that the voters would be bullied into coming up with the
right answer. But "no must mean no" is bound to become a powerful campaigning
slogan in itself.

At his press conference yesterday, while Mr Blair gave the impression that while
he would respect a "no" vote, there was absolutely no indication that he has
given any thought to what his policy response would be.

There is, however, clarity as to what a "no" vote would mean under a Tory
government. Which is why Mr Howard will be on stronger ground during a general
election campaign. He has said that any renegotiation would be on the basis of
his Berlin speech, two months ago, where he spelled out a succinct and
straightforward view. Countries that wish to integrate should be permitted to do
so, while others such as Britain would adopt a "live and let live" approach.
There would be no constitution and we would live with the current situation - as
Mr Blair and Mr Straw said would be their position when Spain and Poland blocked
matters last December.

The main questions that need to be addressed by Mr Howard are: were he to win a
general election on a policy of rejecting the proposed constitution, would he
still hold a referendum? And what, then, would be his response be to a "yes"
vote? The answer to the first question, I am told, is that he would still hold
the referendum. And of course, in answer to the second, he would accept the
verdict. But where would that leave Mr Howard's personal authority?

Eighteen years experience of representing a fishing and steel constituency
suggests to me that arguments raised in industrial constituencies about the
wider European issues encourage voters to opt for the most negative
interpretation of our relationship with Europe. So attempts to focus the debate
on "Europe - in or out?" could be counter-productive.

The Tories may reject the charge from Mr Blair of wanting merely associate
membership, but voters might quite like such an idea. Were he to then be saddled
with a "no" result, as a consequence of such a campaign, the Prime Minister
could be in the bizarre position of facing demands to negotiate withdrawal. He
cannot draw a distinction between a "no" vote under a Tory government from a
"no" vote under a Labour government.

The more Mr Blair suggests that withdrawal or complete renegotiation of our
current status is the Tories' real agenda, the more, I believe, he unwittingly
helps the Tories' election prospects. Tories still fret about candidates from
the UK Independence Party harming them in regaining marginal Labour seats. Mr
Blair may now become the recruiting sergeant for these crucial "lost" Tory votes
at the 1997 and 2001 elections. Having elected Mr Howard as Prime Minister, the
voters could still have second thoughts and be free to vote "yes" to the
constitution. Now wouldn't that be a delightful mess?

mrbrown@pimlico.freeserve.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               10 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 22, 2004

BLAIR DUCKS OUT TV DEBATE WITH HOWARD

BYLINE: PAUL EASTHAM

SECTION: ED_2ND; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 947 words


A RATTLED Tony Blair ducked a challenge from Michael Howard yesterday for a
televised debate on the EU constitution.

As they clashed in the Commons, Mr Blair insisted that the discussion should
take place in Parliament and then in the country.

Mr Howard threw down the gauntlet in an attempt to quash Labour claims that the
Tories were unwilling to discuss the substance of the constitution.

The Premier has accused the Opposition of distorting the debate by concentrating
on 'myths' such as suggestions that Brussels might force the British to drive on
the right.

In heated exchanges, the Tory leader said: 'I make this challenge to the Prime
Minister as soon as the constitution is agreed, will you take part in a
televised debate with me in which we can explore all these issues. Will you
accept that challenge?' Mr Blair replied: 'No. The debate we will have is here
in this House and then when it's agreed in this House, we will have the debate
in the country. We have a televised debate now, I rather think.'

Cynics believe Mr Blair might be tempted to change his mind and accept Mr
Howard's invitation if he thought it would swing the result of a referendum.

On another astonishing day in the saga of the referendum, Mr Blair tore up his
day-old promise to give the British people the 'final say' on the EU
constitution.

He effectively told voters that he will not take No for an answer.

Mr Blair said that if the public rejected the package in one vote they could be
forced to vote again and again until they agree to the controversial EU
constitution.

Bewildered Labour MPs privately accused Downing Street of being in disarray.

Dissidents said Mr Blair was effectively telling voters he would ignore their
vote. This had wiped out the advantage he was trying to obtain by offering a
referendum in the first place, they said.

To enter into force, the constitution must be ratified by all 25 members of the
new enlarged EU that comes into being on May 1, according to the draft treaty.

But there is perhaps a get-out clause from unanimous approval being required.

A little-noticed paragraph in the draft says that if four-fifths of EU countries
have ratified the treaty two years after it was signed and one or more states
'have encountered difficulties' EU leaders will have to discuss their next move.
It makes no reference to what that might be.

On Tuesday, Mr Blair endured his most uncomfortable hour as Premier. After
months of denying the need for a vote, he performed a breathtaking U-turn and
said it was time to 'let the people have a final say' on the constitution.

He used that vague form of words to avoid uttering the embarrassing word
'referendum'.

But if that was designed to reassure the public that he was a listening Premier,
he destroyed that impression yesterday.

Under pressure from Mr Howard, Mr Blair told MPs that if voters rejected the
constitution, the country would be in 'exactly' the same position as the Irish
who in 2001 rejected the Nice treaty.

He said that in those circumstances the Government would adopt a similar
strategy to Irish leaders and sit down with other countries to decide the way
forward.

Critics said the Dublin Government renegotiated a few cosmetic changes to the
treaty.

Then they subjected their people to a propaganda campaign warning of job losses
before voters were forced to go to the polls again the following October.

Unsurprisingly, they voted Yes.

Mr Howard seized on Mr Blair's threat of successive votes as proof that he would
ignore the wishes of the people while the Tories would not.

In a stinging letter to Mr Blair he said: 'The clear implication of what you
said is if the British people do not vote the way you wanted, you would make
them vote again until they did.' By contrast, he said, the Tories would accept
the constitution if

voters backed it in the referendum.

If they voted No, a Tory Government would 'veto' the proposal and accept no
replacement.

Mr Howard's statement was seen in Westminster as shrewd. By pledging to honour a
Yes vote, he pleased his Europhile wing.

By signalling that a No vote would kill the whole idea and that a Tory
Government would not contemplate any replacement he maximised his backing among
Eurosceptics.

Later, Prime Minister's official spokesman did nothing to quash speculation that
Mr Blair would simply seek to renegotiate the treaty terms with other EU states
and then ask voters to think again, if a poll went against him.

Asked if Britain would be forced to endure a rerun of the vote, he replied: 'The
logic of the situation takes you in a certain direction.

The Government would obviously still want to be part of Europe.' Mr Blair has
been deserted by his key Tory allies. Lord Heseltine delivered a savage attack
on the U-turn, calling it 'appalling and irresponsible' and saying the Premier
was 'losing control'. Insiders said former Chancellor Kenneth Clarke shared his
view.

Ministers yesterday made a series of bizarre media appearances.

Jack Straw revealed that the referendum U-turn had never been formally discussed
by the Cabinet because of the pressure of the '24-hour media'.

Trade Secretary Patricia Hewitt claimed in a radio interview that the Tory
position on the constitution was identical to the UK Independence Party which
wants to pull out of Europe.

European analysts were in agreement that Mr Blair's decision to hold a
referendum strengthens his hand in negotiations. But they believe his move could
lead to irresistible calls for referendums in more member states.

p.eastham@dailymail.co.uk

END

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               11 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 22, 2004, Thursday

PANDORA

BYLINE: GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 706 words


MPs oppose wall of glass' between us and them

With MPs (finally) back in Westminster after the Easter break, a serious revolt
is under way over new security arrangements in the House of Commons.

During the recess a vast, bulletproof screen was erected across the public, or
"strangers" gallery, in response to MI5 fears of a terrorist attack. The
temporary screen cost pounds 500,000, but has upset many MPs. Now the veteran
Labour troublemaker Bob Marshall-Andrews has launched a campaign to get rid of
it.

Yesterday, Marshall-Andrews (pictured) tabled an Early Day Motion to "reject and
oppose" the screen; today he hopes to defeat a Government motion to make it
permanent.

"It puts a glass wall between the public and us," he complains. "In our shabby
old democracy, direct contact between MPs and the people is more important than
ever, and we have no right to do this. It's outrageous."

Unlike some of Marshall-Andrews' rebellions, this one has a decent chance of
success. It boasts cross-party support, with Tory MPs perturbed by the cost -
rising to pounds 2.5m if today's vote for a permanent one is passed.

One Tory, Eric Forth, reckons the scheduling of the debate, at noon, could see
it defeated. "Votes at this time attract very few MPs, and one of the delicious
ironies is that this tends to make the result uncertain," he tells me.

Uma opts for a quiet night in

AFTER HER very public split from husband Ethan Hawke, there were some who
reckoned Uma Thurman (left) would spend her time in London looking for a new
man.

Apparently quite the reverse is true. "I haven't been out partying this trip,"
she tells Pandora. "It's been really short and I've had loads of press to do."

Thurman, speaking at the premiere of Kill Bill II, has concentrated on domestic
matters instead.

"I had to go to Harrods to buy toys for my kids," she added. "I've been away
from home and as any parent knows, woe betide you if you come home without a
present."

"They tell me you can buy an elephant in Harrods if you ask the right person.
But so far I've resisted the temptation to try."

The bad news is...

RICKY GERVAIS (left) stands accused of neglecting his comic heritage. Earlier
this year, The Office's deadpan star was in talks to perform at the Lewisham
Comedy Festival, recently re-named Spikefest in honour of Spike Milligan, who
once lived in the area.

Sadly, following his success at the Golden Globes, Gervais lost interest in
headlining next month's event.

"The idea was that he would do a show for us at the Broadway Theatre in
Catford," says an organiser. "We were speaking with his people, but then he won
the award, and it seems he doesn't need to do these sort of events any more."
There are no hard feelings, though. "We're not holding it against Ricky: we know
he now has bigger fish to fry."

Norris's last hurrah

TOUCHING TO hear that one of Norris McWhirter's final acts was to write a "very
complimentary" review of Tony Martin's book A Right to Kill.

Just a couple of days ago, McWhirter rang the book's publisher, Valentina
Artsrunik - wife of Martin's co-author, reformed villain John McVicar - to say
how much he had enjoyed reading it.

He added that he had just polished off a complimentary review for the right-wing
magazine Freedom Today.

"That review must have been the last thing he wrote," says an emotional
Artsrunik. "He also recently sent John a letter saying how much he admires his
courageous stance on drugs in sport. I am crushed that he's died: not many
people express unqualified admiration for my husband."

Further to my report that Teresa Gorman has been campaigning on behalf of the UK
Indpendence Party, I can now reveal that the former Tory backbencher has also
been lending financial support.

On Saturday, at a Ukip lunch in Woking, she began bidding furiously in the
fundraising auction. "Teresa was after a pair of swanky-looking silver plated
candlesticks that someone had donated for sale," I'm told. "Others were
interested, but she wasn't going to be beaten, and eventually got them for
pounds 50. A small, but welcome boost to our funds in the run-up to June's
European elections."

pandora@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               12 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 21, 2004

Seconds out, this is a real title fight

BYLINE: JOHN EDWARDS

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1031 words


HE STAIRS into the gym were a tough climb for Lennox Lewis, because he had to
really drop his head to stop it hitting the ceiling. This was not a problem for
the manager he had then, Frank Maloney, who on his toes just made it to Lennox's
chest.

Other guys in the gym on the Old Kent Road, that great old academy of boxing,
said the first time they saw Lennox nobody could believe he would be able to
train in the gym because of his size. And they never knew if Frank was coming in
with him, because he just got lost behind the future world champ's legs.

The very short and the very tall it was. But it worked all right and Frank took
Lennox to all but two of his world title fights. Then they split.

Earlier this week, Frank was still around the gym with something very different
in mind - which was becoming the next Mayor of London in the June election.

'Not only am I a candidate, but I'm going to win,' he was saying, with each word
coming out to the sound of some sharp-looking guy hitting a punchbag behind him.
There was also the marvellous smell of liniment and sweat about the place.

Frank jumped at the chance to be the UK Independence Party candidate, up against
Ken Livingstone and Tory Steve Norris.

These are the three men in the ring for the job. Only anybody will tell you it's
really just two men, because Frank won't swing much his way in solid Labour
boroughs. And he knows he can forget the blue rinse crowd.

This doesn't matter at all.

He is going at it seriously and hell for leather. But not getting too much
attention, which is crippling.

Frank punches out a popular line. Mostly it is about highoctane emotions, like
homes for Londoners and not asylum seekers. There is a terrific response to this
on all the street corners.

Plenty of work went into slogans.

The one he liked a lot was: 'Sod the criminals, help the victims.' 'People make
fun, but they're the people who don't know the feelings out on the streets,' is
how Frank shoots down the critics.

He surely does know the streets of South London and people know him as being one
of them.

'Call me anything you want, but these people here are let down terribly by the
politicians. Why, I can't think of one politician I've met who I'd trust to run
a sweet shop, let alone London.' WHAT do you think of Ken Livingstone?

You have to take a step back at this point so Frank can throw a volley of
straight rights.

He thinks Livingstone is the kind of man in whose company you need to wear a
necklace of garlic.

'Livingstone is the same danger to this city that the Germans once were.

He will wreck it, destroy it. Tell me one thing he's done which has been of
value. Not 50 things. Just one.

Livingstone only has himself at heart.

His attitude is: "To hell with London now, because I've got the job."' And
Blair? 'What's he ever done for London? Nothing. He says he's for families.

But it's only his own family. Other families can go to hell.' What sort of
reaction are you getting in the campaign? 'Well look, I think it's very
positive. People genuinely come to me and say my ideas are on the right lines.

'They like my ideas on free bus travel for school children. They like the idea
of getting rid of speed bumps and regenerating the estates, building affordable
housing . . . that appeals to them. I know what they want. I'm one of them. I
was brought up around here.' He was driving through Bermondsey to his new gym,
The Fight Factory, HE STAIRS into the gym were a tough climb for Lennox Lewis,
because he had to really drop his head to stop it hitting the ceiling. This was
not a problem for the manager he had then, Frank Maloney, who on his toes just
made it to Lennox's chest.

Other guys in the gym on the Old Kent Road, that great old academy of boxing,
said the first time they saw Lennox nobody could believe he would be able to
train in the gym because of his size. And they never knew if Frank was coming in
with him, because he just got lost behind the future world champ's legs.

The very short and the very tall it was. But it worked all right and Frank took
Lennox to all but two of his world title fights. Then they split.

Earlier this week, Frank was still around the gym with something very over the
Lord Clyde pub. This is just by Millwall football ground and is where you still
hear the faint heartbeat of old London.

'Do you know the tension there is out on the streets? Mothers afraid of kids
getting into drugs, muggings, fights, gunfire all day and night? I want to get
elected to help do something about it.

Livingstone talks. I want to do something.

See, I'm a Rightwing socialist. I understand all sides.' He was out of the
highest levels of the boxing world and said he read about it being a dirty,
lying game.

'People who write that have never met a politician. Now that certainly is a bent
business. Don't look further than the present Government.' Three police cars
whistled out of Browning Street, Southwark, and a crowd of cops jumped out right
by a pub, The Stroke Of Luck, and rounded up a bunch of kids.

Frank pulled up down the street to check it out. Another police car drove in.
There were eight cops now and eight kids.

Twin girls - a woman who knew them said they were 14 - were being questioned and
tapped down.

A fat girl carrying a shopping bag was turning out the contents for a pretty
woman cop.

A watching mother went up and talked to Frank. She said the fat girl had been
held up by the twins.

That's what she'd heard.

Frank asked her what she meant by 'held up'. 'Pulled a knife,' she said, making
the gesture.

'That's bad,' Frank said. 'It's all the time,' the woman told him.

'Gunfire at night, screaming, stabbing. Mr Maloney, I'd pack up my house and
leave this place in five minutes if I had the chance.' Frank said he understood.
Then he got in his car and drove down the road to Rosie O'Grady's, sat in the
bar and ordered a Diet Coke.

'Back there,' he said, 'that woman saying that. I know how she feels.

It's my world. That's how I can win and be Mayor.' He meant it, too.

john.t.edwards@dailymail.co.uk

END

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               13 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 April 18, 2004

LEADER CROSS BENCHER; TORIES' HALF-HEARTED EU FRAUD CHALLENGE

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 277 words


MORE fun and games are expected over at the European Commission this week when
Commissioners face embarrassing slaps on the wrist from MEPs fed up with
overspending, bungling bureaucrats.

The Commission's annual accounts will be coming in for unwanted scrutiny after
exposes of widespread fraud at the heart of the European machine that are
costing EU taxpayers hundreds of millions of pounds.

On Monday British Tory MEPs will join forces with fellow Euro MPs to challenge
Commission President Romano Prodi over the Eurostat scandal - which saw millions
of pounds disappear into "black accounts" at the EU data office - and to refuse
to approve the Commission's latest accounts, which date back to 2002.

However, the Tories are less keen to back a motion of censure against the
Commission for its failure to tackle corruption. The motion, which is to be
called in the Strasbourg parliament on Wednesday, is being led by UK
Independence Party MEPs but has had little support from mainstream British MEPs
who profess to be fighting fraud.

Fourteen of Tory leader Michael Howard's 36 MEPs signed up to the motion earlier
this month but only five - including ex-whip Chris Heaton-Harris - now remain on
the list after threats of deselection from on high.

UKIP MEP Nigel Farage says:

"We still have the 63 names we need for a vote to be called but only because we
got some Communists to sign up. We can't understand why the Tories don't want to
support this vote. If our motion is successful, it could mean the whole
Commission has to resign again."

Howard clearly doesn't want the blood of European Commissioners on his hands...
yet.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               14 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             April 18, 2004, Sunday

ELECTORAL LIES MEP's rebellion threatens vote Notebook

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER BOOKER

SECTION: News; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 454 words

Readers of this column may not have been surprised by last week's eruption of
press speculation that Tony Blair is contemplating a referendum on the EU
constitution, which he could turn into a Yes or No vote on Britain staying in
the EU. Three times last year I reported that Downing Street was contemplating
such a "nuclear option", with the idea of wrongfooting a Tory leadership so
determined that Britain must remain in the EU that it would be forced
shamefacedly to line up alongside Mr Blair and the Lib Dems, in opposing all
those who wish Britain to leave.

Meanwhile Michael Howard is facing fresh embarrassment, as the Euro-elections
approach, over his decision that Tory members of the European Parliament must
remain part of the ultra-federalist European People's Party.

In 1999 the present Tory MEPs were elected on a manifesto pledge that they would
fight against the fraud which had just forced the resignation of the entire
European Commission. No one took this more seriously than Chris Heaton-Harris,
an East Midlands MEP, whose battle to expose the succession of corruption
scandals eventually led him - although he was now the Tories' chief whip - to
put down a motion of censure on the present Commission for its failure to act
over the fraud scandal engulfing Eurostat, the EU's statistical office.

Thirty-two other Tories, including their leader Jonathan Evans, also signed Mr
Heaton-Harris's motion, which went a long way towards the 63 MEPs needed to get
the motion on the order paper. But recently Hans-Gerd Pottering, the German
leader of the EPP, told Mr Evans that for the motion to go ahead would not be
helpful to the EU's reputation. Making nonsense of the claim that Tory MEPs do
not have to comply with the EPP's policies, Mr Evans asked his MEPs to remove
their names.

Most caved in and withdrew, although Mr Heaton-Harris not only stood his ground
but resigned as chief whip. When the censure motion was handed in on Thursday by
Jens-Peter Bonde, the Danish leader of the Europe of Democracies and Diversities
group (which also includes the three UK Independence Party MEPs), only nine Tory
names remained. By Friday two more had withdrawn.

The seven who, despite intense pressure, have stood firm are thus the only Tory
MEPs who have stayed true to the central pledge on which they were all elected
in 1999. In due course this may pale besides the embarrassment of Mr Howard if
Mr Blair does opt for his "in or out" referendum gamble. But as a measure of the
mess the Tories get into when they try to play weasel games over Europe, thus
showing contempt for the views of most of their grass-roots membership, this
shabby episode deserves more publicity than it has received.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               15 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             April 18, 2004, Sunday

Vote BNP and give Britain a dictator, says Tony Martin Farmer jailed for killing
gypsy says he wants migrants repatriated

BYLINE: BY DANIEL FOGGO

SECTION: News; Focus:Pg. 17

LENGTH: 685 words

TONY MARTIN, the Norfolk farmer jailed for shooting dead a gypsy burglar, has
become a supporter of the British National Party, urging people to vote for the
far-Right racist movement that wants legal immigrants "voluntarily repatriated".

Martin has admitted attending a meeting of the BNP in the past two weeks and
says he has also recently been to gatherings of the National Front, the other
well-known far-Right party in Britain.

His endorsement of the BNP is likely to be seized on by its leader, Nick
Griffin, in the hope that it will give his party a boost in June's local
elections. The BNP currently has 17 councillors, predominantly in northern
England.

Martin, who was released from prison last July after having his murder
conviction reduced to manslaughter on appeal, also says he thinks that people
should support the United Kingdom Independence Party, which has the removal of
Britain from the European Union as its main policy platform.

The 59-year-old, whose conviction was largely based on evidence that he had a
hatred of gypsies, told The Sunday Telegraph last week: "I am urging people to
vote for the BNP and the UK Independence Party because the two-party system we
have now is not working. It is a stalemate and something has to be done.

"I have not voted myself for 20 years and won't start now but others have to. I
have been to a BNP meeting in the last two weeks. It was held in the back room
of a pub and the talk was of how it is the fastest growing party in the
country."

Martin, whose late uncle Andrew Fountaine was a founder of the National Front,
said: "I am not aware of all the BNP's policies but voluntary repatriation seems
a good idea to me. There are young Jamaicans who come to this country but if
they could be given pounds 20,000 they would be rich men back in Jamaica. If
this is what people wanted it would be very good.

"Apparently we haven't got enough labour so we are going down the same road as
the 1960s when we brought in the Pakistanis and Jamaicans. It is all very
ill-thought-out.

"Charity begins at home. It would be more economical to look after foreigners in
their own countries than having them come here. Is it all the people coming over
here creating a shortage of homes that is making the prices go up?"

Gerry Gable, publisher of the anti-fascist magazine Searchlight, was dismissive
of Martin's stance. "It comes as no surprise that another convicted criminal is
giving his endorsement to a party that claims to be representing law and order,"
he said.

Martin, who was jailed four years ago for shooting dead the 16-year-old burglar,
Fred Barras, and wounding his accomplice, Brendon Fearon, during a raid on his
isolated farmhouse, is backing the BNP's "get tough" attitude on law and order.

The party's policies include reintroducing corporal punishment for petty
criminals such as burglars and bringing in the death penalty for paedophiles,
murderers and terrorists in cases were "guilt is proven beyond dispute". Martin
said: "What we want to see is crime reduced and we want to bring the police into
the real world so they get their priorities right.

"One of the National Front people told me that at a court case recently a
probation officer said these criminals are reared from a very young age to steal
and so, to them, it is not a crime. I have never heard so much stupidity." He
believed in an authoritarian approach, even where it meant foregoing democracy.

"There is going to be a dictator in this country, but there are such things as
benign dictators. Too much liberalism is worse than too little. The politicians
as we know them are already anachronisms.

"There are things that want doing today, right now. A dictator is the way to go.
For instance, we must keep out of Europe. We are a unique island people."

Piers Morgan, the editor of the Mirror, which bought Martin's story last year
for pounds 100,000, said that while he did not agree with his political views he
had no regrets about the deal.

He said: "If he's advocating voting BNP, we obviously don't agree with that, and
neither would our readers."

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               16 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             April 16, 2004, Friday

Merchant eyes Westminster

BYLINE: by Charlie Methven

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 25

LENGTH: 226 words

Could we be about to see a return to the political fray for disgraced former
Tory MP Piers Merchant?

Last Thursday, 53-year-old Merchant - who recently joined the UK Independence
Party - left the London Chamber of Commerce, where he has been campaigns
director since 2001.

Friends and colleagues are now openly speculating that he will contest a
parliamentary seat for the UKIP at next year's general election.

"Piers left the Chamber of Commerce very suddenly," says one. "He said that he
was resigning only about a fortnight ago and, since leaving last week, he has
been hiding out at his holiday cottage in Devon."

Another former colleague says: "Piers did hint that he might return to politics,
but he didn't even leave a forwarding address or a number."

Any return to the Commons would certainly add a touch of colour to Westminster.
Back in 1997, you may recall, Merchant stepped down as an MP following
allegations that he had been having an affair with 17-year-old nightclub hostess
Anna Cox, which he denied at the time.

But if he thinks that the UKIP offers a safe berth, he may have to think again.
Max Clifford - the publicist who helped bring down his political career by
selling the story to the Sun - is currently employed by the UKIP as a PR
adviser, while Cox herself, meanwhile, has been seen out leafleting for the
party.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               17 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 15, 2004, Thursday

Fighting talk from Maloney

BYLINE: Edited by Charlie Methven

SECTION: FeaturesSpy Pg. 25

LENGTH: 132 words

My telephone stands to attention. It's Frank Maloney, boxing promoter and UKIP
candidate in the London mayoral election.

Maloney (right) is understandably upset by my reports of Ken Livingstone's
lukewarm support for St George's Day.

"Livingstone's half-hearted efforts are an insult to the English people," he
fumes.

"I'm holding a St George's Day dinner at the New Connaught Rooms in Covent
Garden next Thursday. Apart from hosting the event, I've bought four tables,
including one for a group of Chelsea Pensioners.  "A mate of mine in the Royal
Marines is also bringing along his friends who are just back from the Gulf."

Hmm. Whether or not Maloney's best known client, heavyweight boxer Lennox Lewis,
turns up, Red Ken might be best advised to give the bash a wide berth.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               18 of 20 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 13, 2004, Tuesday

GREEN RAP FOR TORIES

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 106 words


TORY Euro MPs are among the worst in the European Parliament for voting against
environmentally-friendly plans.

The new research is a major embarrassment for Tory leader Michael Howard as the
EU is responsible for about 90 per cent of environmental laws in the UK.

Labour MEPs have a 70 per cent record for voting for green measures.

The Tories lag behind on 13 per cent with the ultra-right UK Independence Party
failing to support any votes on environment improvement.

Friends of the Earth campaigns director Mike Childs said: "These results are
shameful. Mr Howard needs to see these results as a wake-up call."

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                               19 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 April 11, 2004

Comment: Accentuating the negative: WITHOUT PREJUDICE

BYLINE: Nick Cohen

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1082 words


A little-known political party is set to wreak havoc at the next Euro elections,
just by saying 'No'

ONLY CAREFUL readers of last Tuesday's Daily Mail would have noticed a
quarter-page advert for the UK Independence Party. For followers of the
anti-European movement, the ad carried familiar slogans: Say No to the European
Union; Immigration out of Control; Blair to Sign Away Britain's Right to Govern
Itself; Our Politicians Do Not Listen. Familiar, but now very potent slogans, as
the EU constitution, terrorism, immigration and what Alastair Campbell aptly
described in his diary as 'this huge stuff about trust' produce an intoxicating
brew which induces fear and anger in equal proportions.

For UKIP the small advert was a taste of what's in store in the run-up to June's
European elections. What appeared to be the nuttiest of fringe parties won three
Euro seats and 11 per cent of the vote in the Euro-hating South West last time
round in 1999. Its victories were bought on a campaign budget of just £60,000.
In 2004, UKIP has already raised £500,000 and is expecting another £500,000
before polling day. The party has booked 1,054 poster sites - the first
anti-European billboards will go up this week - and plans to distribute six
million leaflets. Call centres and press advertising will encourage converts to
join a party which is being advised by two of the 1990s' leading media
manipulators -Britain's Max Clifford and Dick Morris, Bill Clinton's strategist,
whose Machiavellian tactics inspired loathing and awe in the American political
class.

The official line is that UKIP's move into the glitzy world of modern
electioneering has been made possible by the gen erosity of the little people of
old England. 'We don't have big corporate donors like the others,' said Mark
Croucher, the party's spokesman. 'Like myself, most of our members earn a
pittance.'

There's truth in that. On the one hand, UKIP represents small-town eccentrics
far from the centres of power - Jeffrey Titford, one of its Euro MPs, has been
known as the Frinton Undertaker since he combined running an east coast funeral
business with burying the monsters of Brussels. On the other, it is home to the
wilder theorists of the Right - the party is forever having to institute purges
of BNP infiltrators. Half UKIP's members are entitled to claim the reduced rate
for pensioners when they pay their subscriptions.

Yet although mockery of the rag-tag coalition comes easily, it's a little too
pat to dismiss UKIP as a bunch of fruitcakes. There are a lot of people who
don't want Britain's relationship with the EU renegotiated or loosened. They
want to finish it. They aren't represented in Parliament because not even the
Tories have dared to call for withdrawal.

Fears about immigration aren't entirely the creation of the press, which, in any
case, has to reflect the prejudices of its readers if it is to sell papers.
Despite Michael Howard's revitalising of the Tory Party, there's a significant
section of conservative opinion which won't be happy with anything less than
Little England taking on the world. Howard notwithstanding, there are Tory
defections to the UKIP camp every few weeks, occasionally with dramatic effect
at the level of local councils. The party's boast that it is a grass-roots
uprising against the Westminster and Brussels elites appears valid, until you
follow the money.

IN THE 1990s, people like me argued that corporate donors were taking over
politics. Rather stupidly we underestimated the political consequences of the
huge extremes of wealth and poverty. What need is there for corporate
beneficence when a handful of plutocrats can provide the funds a party needs?

The Conservatives are most obviously dependent on the generosity of the
super-rich. Iain Duncan Smith wasn't thrown out when he lost the confidence of
the Parliamentary party - he never had it in the first place - or when the
rank-and-file said enough was enough - they stuck with him to the end. What did
for him was the revolt of the big-money donors. Stuart Wheeler, the
spread-betting tycoon, who had given £5 million, announced that Duncan Smith
'doesn't look like a potential Prime Minister'. Other backers agreed, and the
Leader of the Opposition was out.

UKIP isn't so different. Rich men can use the party to pursue their passions.
For all the mites from widows, UKIP's advertising splurge is being part-funded
by men who look the spit of Stuart Wheeler.

Alan Bown of Alan Bown (Margate) Ltd has given £104,000 since 2001. The
chequebook of Bruce Robertson, a discount retailer whose family is worth about
£85m, is providing the money for advertising campaigns.

Paul Sykes, the Eurosceptic businessman, and Sir Jack Hayward, of Wolverhampton
Wanderers, have helped out in the past and may do so again. As the number of
mainstream party activists prepared to raise funds falls ever lower, and turnout
in elections matches the decline, the chance exists for a few rich men to
organise angry minorities Berlusconi-style and win seats, if not power.

The presence of Dick Morris as an adviser to the UKIP campaign is telling. It
shows the party has had no qualms about using the most cynical and effective
propaganda tools. Somewhat peculiarly, Morris, an American, has taken it upon
himself to help the British 'win your independence from France'.

There's no doubting his sincerity or his passion, but there's no doubting the
ruthlessness of his tactics either. Morris saved Bill Clinton's presidency in
the mid-1990s by persuading him to 'triangulate' - that is, to move to the Right
and steal the Republicans' clothes. Clinton secured re-election with a series of
crass messages.

We will save your children from pornography; we will save the middle classes'
hard-earned money from being thrown at the greedy poor. There were no greater
admirers of Clinton than Philip Gould, Peter Mandelson and Tony Blair himself.
In its early years, New Labour did little else than triangulate the living
daylights out of the Tories.

Now Clintonite tactics are to be used against New Labour. Morris has told his
friends that the message the public wants to hear is 'NO'. NO to Europe. NO to
Brussels. NO to the single currency. NO to immigration. NO to the Westminster
establishment.

Don't be too surprised in June if the media is surprised once again, and UKIP
surfs a wave of negativity.

Best of Nick Cohen www.observer.co.uk/comment


LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               20 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 10, 2004

Saturday Review: The state we're in: Roy Hattersley refutes the hypothesis of
Britain's decline but appreciates the lesson: The Myth of Decline by George L
Bernstein 816pp, Pimlico, £9.99

BYLINE: Roy Hattersley

SECTION: Guardian Saturday Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 955 words


What sensible person could disagree with this book's proposition that the
decline of Britain is a myth? Of course it has not been all downhill since 1945.
So who, exactly, is saying the opposite? George Bernstein quotes, as evidence,
Alison Murray's description of England - a "shabby, mangy old lion", so feeble
"anyone could tweak (its) tail". But Murray is a character from fiction

- the heroine of Margaret Drabble's The Ice Age . Drabble herself is no more
likely to mourn the passing of empire than I am to join the United Kingdom
Independence Party.

In fact, The Myth of Decline , although long on historical fact, is short on any
sort of analysis. Its very considerable strength is the way in which - often by
a bald recital of what ought to be well-known facts - it draws the reader's
attention to obvious, but previously disputed, truths. "By the standards of
other western European states (but not of Japan and the United States, whose
cultures are entirely different) Britain's welfare state was not excessively
generous. If anything it was a bit stingy."

So much both for those Labour sentimentalists who boast that Britain's social
services are "the envy of the world", and the Conservatives who claim that our
generosity - exceeding our neighbours' - attracts "welfare tourists" from less
happy lands. What sounds almost like an excuse for British "stinginess" is an
equally important reflection on why the United Kingdom, although doing well, did
not do better. Other countries "did not have Britain's overseas commitments and
atomic weapons. So they could more easily afford the welfare state."

Bernstein concludes that UK governments could not "have got away with a smaller
welfare state". Quite right. But they could have got away with reliance on the
American strategic umbrella rather than insisting that Britain possessed what
Harold Wilson once called "a so-called independent, so-called nuclear, so-called
deterrent". It is astonishing that Britain - carrying the triple burden of
excessive defence expenditure, residual responsibilities of empire and the
restraints of sterling as a reserve currency - managed to do as well as it did.
There must be something in the water.

The paradox of Bernstein's analysis is made clear by his description of the
attitude to world affairs that all the main political parties shared in 1945.
There was no admission of decline, even though there was a great deal of
resentment that Britain had been forced to liquidate many of its overseas assets
to save the free world. But the predominant feeling was pride. The country that
had "stood alone" against aggression regarded itself as almost a superpower. So
it accepted superpower obligations and, in consequence, improved its economy and
the lives of its people far more slowly than would have been possible had
realism broken through.

The Myth of Decline is a straightforward history of 20th-century Britain -
although, for some reason that escapes me, both author and publisher are
reluctant to admit it. As a proper history book should, it struggles to be
objective. The analysis of "The New Liberalism" - Bernstein's description of
Thatcherism - describes the objectives of that theory in the language that its
practitioners and proponents might use. "The keys then to Britain's econ-omic
revival were several, get government out of the economy and cut the size of the
public sector . . ." Bernstein will argue that he is merely reflecting
Thatcherite prejudices. The description goes on for too long - and contains too
much excitement - to prevent the suspicion that the author felt some sympathy
for "individual self-reliance". At least he accepts that Thatcher's election did
not mark a historic turning point in national fortunes.

Thatcherism did, however, mark a major shift in the zeitgeist. Bernstein, in a
moment of understatement, concludes that "New Labour looked an awful lot like
Thatcherism . . . its economic prescription accepted that beneficent supremacy
of the market . . . Government should reduce its role in the economy." He is
right to say that Keynes had gone out of fashion before Mrs Thatcher arrived in
Downing Street. At the Labour conference in 1978, Jim Callaghan explicitly
refuted demand management as a way of maintaining high employment. Bernstein's
analysis is sufficiently perceptive to stand on its own feet without being
propped up by a not altogether convincing theory about a national inferiority
complex.

The Bernstein theory of imagined decline embraces reaction against American
cultural imperialism and resentment that satellite television has made sport
more commercial. Most British citizens have the sense to realise that scientific
progress balances advantages with detriments and that global television was
bound to change the world for worse as well as better. Combine new technology
with the economics of scale and Murdoch was bound to produce a version of what
began in Hollywood. When, many summers ago, I went to see Donald Wolfit in King
Lear , I wore my cricket flannels with my school blazer - hoping I looked like
Gene Kelly in An American in Paris . Our cultures have been confused since
Edison recorded sound.

The Bernstein thesis has to be examined in two parts. He is right to say that
Britain has not declined, but wrong to suggest that many informed people thought
it had. Around those two propositions he has written a wonderfully detailed
history book. If the intellectual gimmick helps with sales, that is all to the
good.

Roy Hattersley's The Edwardians will be published by Little, Brown in November.
To order The Myth of Decline for £9.99 with free UK p&p call Guardian book
service on 0870 066 7979.


LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited
