
                                1 of 7 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             March 29, 2004, Monday

Maloney's FA Cup vote goes firmly to Millwall Boxing promoter has VIP seat at
the Den and a plan to be London mayor

BYLINE: By ROBERT PHILIP

SECTION: Sport; Comment: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 1207 words

EVEN Del Boy, you feel, wouldn't have the cheek. From Peckham to City Hall;
Maloney4Mayor, proclaims the message on the side of Frank Maloney's bright
yellow Reliant Robin three-wheeler.

"And I'll tell you this," he says of his immediate political and football
ambitions, "the only way I want to go into Europe is with Millwall."

Just as Derek Trotter was wont to remind younger brother Rodney that "this time
next year we'll be millionaires", so Frank, 5ft 3in of brass neck and guile,
remains breezily confident his beloved Millwall will not only beat Sunderland in
Sunday's FA Cup semi-final at Old Trafford, but that come June 10 he will
succeed Ken Livingston as Mayor of London. More Don Quixote than Dick
Whittington, point Maloney in the direction of a windmill and he will have a
tilt at it. "I love ridiculous challenges; for me to become mayor of London is
like me managing a world heavyweight champion, an impossible dream. But I
convinced Lennox Lewis he could become world champ if he signed with me and,
although it's against all the odds and people might think I'm crazy, I honestly
believe winning the mayoral election is my destiny."

Ever since he was born in Elephant and Castle 49 years ago, Maloney's life could
have provided material for several hundred episodes of Only Fools And Horses: a
brief flirtation with the priesthood ("Wot? No women at all?"), followed by
spells as an apprentice jockey, market street trader ("with more front than
Harrods"), football trialist with Wimbledon (failed), chef to Edward Heath at No
10, cookery teacher to Idi Amin's exiled Ugandan Asians in a resettlement camp
in Devon, preparing lunch in a MI5-owned restaurant in Soho ("it turned out all
my customers were trainee James Bonds"), greengrocer, Whitechapel publican ("we
were voted pub of the year, mostly because of the clothes - or rather lack of
them - I made the waitresses wear"), amateur boxer, manager of the heavyweight
champion, and, now, official mayoral candidate for the United Kingdom
Independence Party.

But let us allow him to step down from his soap box for the moment to discuss
Millwall's FA Cup destiny. "My dad started taking me to the Den at the age of
three. When I was naughty and didn't get my pocket money - and sometimes even
when I did get my pocket money - I used to climb in for free over the dog track.
Being small does have its advantages."

As a highly successful boxing promoter/manager and Millwall shareholder, Maloney
now possesses a VIP seat at the New Den where he finds himself surrounded by all
the familiar faces of his misspent youth. "Despite our reputation, Millwall are
basically a family club. I loved the old place because the crowd was so close to
the players you used to get a lot of chit-chat backwards and forwards, but the
new ground is like moving from a ghetto to Park Lane. The facilities are
fantastic; the old toilets were - well, whoof - you peed where you stood mostly
and the hospitality was a meat pie and a cup of Bovril on a cold day. Now I'm a
member of the executive gold club so you have lunch before the game, tea and
sandwiches at half-time, Sky TV and hot water, soap and loo roll in the toilets.

"But the atmosphere has never changed. It makes me angry when people harp on
about racist chants, and there's no denying we've had our share of problems, but
if Millwall was a hotbed of racism, I wouldn't be there, simple as that. Nor
would I take along my daughters, Sophie [eight] and Libby [three]. How could I
tolerate incessant racist taunts when I work with so many black fighters? I took
Lennox along one day and for a bit of mischief introduced him to everyone
sitting around us as a West Ham fan. Now Millwall supporters hate West Ham more
than any other club but Lennox was made to feel like one of the family. Although
being 6ft 5in probably helped.

"Following Millwall is a way of life and although I've sat alongside Muhammad
Ali, Mike Tyson and Evander Holyfield at various functions over the years, I get
a bigger thrill out of bumping into George Graham, who was one of the best
managers we ever had. We've had some right bad ones, too, just as we've had some
great players - Charlie Hurley, Teddy Sheringham, Tony Cascarino, Keith Weller,
Alex Stepney, Eamonn Dunphy - and some right shockers. When Mick McCarthy, who's
now manager of Sunderland coincidentally, was manager he brought a couple of
Russians [Sergei Yuran and Vasili Kulkov] here who were more interested in
getting drunk in the pubs in the Old Kent Road than playing football. They
weren't here long enough for me to even remember their names."

Under player-coach Dennis Wise, the youthful Millwall line-up occupy a
Premiership play-off place with the prospect of a first FA Cup final appearance
against Arsenal or Manchester United at the Millennium Stadium, Cardiff.

"Which would guarantee us a place in Europe next season. Just imagine Barcelona
arriving at the Den? We've beaten Sunderland twice already this season, home and
away, so we've got absolutely nothing to fear. Putting on my political hat, I'm
one of those who sincerely believes Britain should be run by Westminster not
Brussels, but I'll he happy to go into Europe wearing a Millwall rosette.
Beating Arsenal in the final? Now, isn't that the perfect impossible dream?"

After beating Sunderland and Arsenal, Maloney plans to flatten the heavyweights
of the mayoral election, Livingston (Labour), Steve Norris (Conservative) and
Simon Hughes (Liberal Democrat). He is basing his campaign on that of his
political hero, Rudolph Giuliani. "He did a phenomenal job of cleaning up the
streets of graffiti, drugs and pornography, yet New York is still the most
exciting city in the world. London should be like New York, a 24-hour city where
you can eat, drink or dance at any time of the day or night."

An Englishman born of Irish parents, married to a Welshwoman, the long-suffering
Tracey, and manager of a Scottish world champion, Scot Harrison, Maloney is an
unashamed British patriot. "That's why I'm so passionate about this
electioneering business; London doesn't need a politician as mayor. What it
needs is a businessman, a promoter, a salesman, a tourism director, a
communicator. I can go into Petticoat Lane for a natter with the stallholders
then go into my office to wheel and deal with the sharpest minds in boxing. If
the people of London are looking for a mayor who has all those qualifications,
there's no one better than me.

"You know what I don't like about career politicians? They can't look you in the
eye. Critics of the sport say people in boxing wouldn't know the truth if it hit
us; well, every politician I've met doesn't even lie straight in bed. I promise
to answer each and every question as honestly as I can.

"I want to see a return to the traditional street markets, stop the sale of
sports fields so we don't see gangs of youngsters hanging about street corners
because they've got nothing else to do, scrap the congestion charges, convince
the people the police are our friends not our enemies . . .

"There's so much to be done and if I didn't think I was the man to achieve it,
then I'd back out now. It's become a crusade - meet the rebel with a cause."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                                2 of 7 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 28, 2004

EUROSCEPTICS SAY BRITAIN 'TRAPPED' IN EU FOR EVER; GET-OUT CLAUSE WITH NO GET
OUT

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 766 words


BRITAIN will be trapped into staying in the EU under the new European
constitution and become a colonial state, eurosceptics claimed last night.

The fears were raised as pressure mounted on Tony Blair to hold a national
referendum on whether Britain should sign up to the constitution.

The issue returned to centre stage after EU leaders at last week's Brussels
summit agreed a June 17 deadline for concluding negotiations on the
constitution.

Leading eurosceptics claim the so-called "exit clause" in the constitution is a
trap preventing Britain - or any other member state - from leaving the EU within
two years and handing over control to Brussels for that time.

Those strict rules would mean no British Prime Minister would ever be able in
practice to take Britain out of the EU if our national interests came under
threat.

Under Article 1-59 of the constitution, Britain would have to give two years'
notice before leaving the EU. During that time, Britain would be barred from
participating in any decisions or voting in any EU institutions, even if they
directly concerned British interests.

The article firmly states: "The representative of the withdrawing member state
shall not participate in Council or European Council discussions or decisions
concerning it."

This would effectively hand over the governing of Britain to Brussels for two
years, critics claim, which would make it politically impossible for any British
premier to agree to such terms.

Article 1-59 also requires that a withdrawing state will have to "negotiate and
conclude an agreement" with the European Council over the terms of withdrawal,
including future trade deals.

That settlement will also require the agreement of a qualified majority of
member states and the consent of the European Parliament.

Last night, eurosceptic Tory MP Bill Cash said: "The arrangements for withdrawal
are hopeless because they are dependent on the European Parliament, which would
be in a position to blackmail us.

"They would have us over a barrel, which would make it impossible for any
British prime minister ever to take the decision to leave the EU. That is the
reason the whole constitution must be put to a referendum."

UK Independence party MEP Nigel Farage said: "The wording of this article is
very clear. It is called the exit clause but it's actually a trap that would
mean Britain would be reduced to a colonial state.

"No Prime Minister could ever do it. If this constitution is signed, that's it.
There is no way out."

European Commission president Romano Prodi has insisted that the concerns are
"highly hypothetical" but, at the same time, warned that a member state which
ignored the complex rules for withdrawal would be "in breach" of both EU and
international law.

A senior Foreign Office source said: "The reality is that you could always
withdraw from the treaty whenever you want to but there would be lots of things
to negotiate."

Constitution talks collapsed in December when Spain and Poland held out for a
better voting hand as part of new decision-making rules.

However, a change of government in Spain following the Madrid terror bombing and
a Polish climbdown have removed the biggest stumbling blocks to a deal.

Mr Blair has said he wanted agreement on the constitution "as quickly as
possible", but insisted he will not surrender sovereignty to Brussels on the key
"red line" issues of tax, foreign policy, defence or the criminal justice
system.

Shadow Foreign Secretary Michael Ancram yesterday accused Mr Blair of "running
scared of the British people" by refusing to agree to a referendum. Mr Blair is
now facing growing pressure from his own backbenches to hold a referendum amid
fears that the House of Lords will seek to block ratification of the treaty even
if MPs go against public opinion and agree to the deal.

Labour MP and former minister Frank Field said that at least 30 Labour MPs are
"deeply troubled" over the issue and warned there was "a huge amount of dispute
ahead" in the run up to the next General Election.

"It won't be a case of Lords against the people, " he said.

"Because of the high level of resistance in the country, the campaign will
clearly and firmly be one of the people against the Government."

An ICM poll by the New Frontiers Foundation found that almost two-thirds of
Britons - 64 per cent - believe that the international terrorist threat after
the Madrid bombing has made it "more important" that Britain keeps control of
its own affairs and remains outside the euro zone.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                                3 of 7 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            March 27, 2004, Saturday

What the Queen's butler heard

SECTION: NewsSaturday spy Pg. 20

LENGTH: 133 words

Protocol dictates that the Queen must refrain from making her political views
public, particularly when they concern contentious issues of the day.

Fascinating, then, to conduct an interview with her former butler, Paul Kidd,
who has just joined the UK Independence Party.

Kidd - who also worked for the Queen Mother - loyally refuses to say what Her
Majesty thinks of the European Union. But I think we can surmise that she isn't
all that keen.

"I am forbidden to repeat conversations I overheard between her and her
ministers," Kidd tells me. "But she voiced concerns about all manner of issues
during her weekly audiences with the prime minister of the day."

And what about Europe?

"She's very concerned about the issue. It is one of the Queen's favourite topics
of conversation."

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                                4 of 7 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 23, 2004

UKIP IS ONLY PARTY THAT BELIEVES IN LIFE AFTER EU

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 78 words


J BEVAN (Letters, March 19) is quite correct when he say the EU is "useless".
However, there is a far better way of registering this than writing "entirely
useless" on the European election ballot papers.

A massive vote for the UK Independence Party will send shock waves through the
old tri-partite coalition, all of which have sold their souls to the EU.

UKIP is the only party that believes we would be better off out of the EU.

M Smith, Gloucester

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                                5 of 7 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 March 20, 2004

The maybes, the maybe-nots and the unlikely: Five definitely on shortlist to
head demoralised BBC

BYLINE: Matt Wells: Media correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 605 words


A media mogul, a broadcasting doyen, a dame, a baroness and at least one lord
are on it. Another peer may or may not be on it, and a councillor in the Isle of
Wight says he's on it but nobody believes him.

The shortlist for the post of BBC chairman (salary: £81,320 for four days a
week) has been finalised, and interviews will be held on Tuesday.

But even though the government insists the corporation is the property of the
licence-fee payers, ministers will not tell its owners who is in the running to
lead it.

Nevertheless, the Guardian established last week that David Dimbleby, the
veteran broadcaster and former newspaper owner, was on the list.

Michael Grade, the former BBC1 controller who now runs Pinewood and Shepperton
film studios, is also on it. Dame Patricia Hodgson, the former chief executive
of the Independent Television Commission, whose job became redundant when the
organisation's responsibilities transferred to the new media regulator, Ofcom,
is understood to be a candidate.

Another of those heading to the Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS)
near Trafalgar Square on Tuesday is Richard Lambert, the former editor of the
Financial Times; as is Lady Young of Old Scone, a former vice chairman of the
BBC and a Labour peer.

According to the Times, Lord Watson of Richmond, a Liberal Democrat peer who
used to report for the Money Programme and Panorama, is also in the running. The
least known of the candidates was said to have been put forward as a potential
BBC governor in 1993, only to be vetoed by the then prime minister, John Major.

It is unclear whether Lord Burns, the chairman of the Abbey bank and former
permanent secretary to the Treasury, is in the running. He has not stepped aside
from his position as independent adviser to the government on the process of
reviewing the BBC's royal charter, as he would be required to do under the Nolan
rules of good conduct in public life. But some reports suggest that his friend
Lord Birt, former director general of the BBC and now a Downing Street adviser,
had persuaded him to stand.

The wildcard is one Bernard Buckle, a councillor for the UK Independence party
in the Isle of Wight, who has told his colleagues he is heading for London next
week and has ruled himself out of council business. It seems rather improbable:
Mr Buckle, a chartered accountant who switched allegiance from the Labour group,
has a conviction for drink-driving and a colourful reputation. But the civil
service works in mysterious ways.

Interviews will be conducted by a panel chaired by Sue Street, the permanent
secretary at the DCMS. She is accompanied by two "independent assessors", drawn
from the Cabinet Office's list of the "great and the good": one is thought to be
a senior human resources executive and the other has a background in "corporate
media".

The panel will make a recommendation to Tessa Jowell, the culture secretary,
although Tony Blair has the final say.

A successor to Greg Dyke, the former director general whose scalp was also
claimed by Hutton, is being sought by the board of governors; the new chairman
will be presented with the shortlist before the whole board makes a decision.

The first task of the new leaders will be to restore its battered morale, which
has not been helped by the disciplinary procedure invoked on those involved in
the David Kelly affair. They will also have to grapple with the charter review,
and the almost inevitable reform - and possibly abolition - of the board of
governors. Neither will be easy.

Mark Lawson, page 23

MediaGuardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                                6 of 7 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             March 14, 2004, Sunday

MY WEEK: MAX CLIFFORD

BYLINE: MAX CLIFFORD

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 724 words


From pop stars to terrorist suspects, they haven't stop calling the PR
consultant

Sunday. As usual, I woke up late and ran through the papers. I was pleased to
see the way the News of the World had handled something I placed with them: the
pictures of the accused Leicester City footballers standing against the bar with
the women who later accused them of rape. The pictures had been brought to me by
a woman holidaymaker who had happened to be on the scene. After breakfast, I had
a game of tennis with my Polish friend Zbish Przkof who, at 50, is 10 years
younger than me and who like myself has converted from squash to tennis. He's
the sporting one. I'm the competitive one. For lunch, my daughter Louise, who
had a kidney transplant five weeks ago, and I go out to see friends. We
socialise a lot together, particularly since my wife died of cancer nearly a
year ago.

Monday. The Sun has used the same pictures of the footballers. This makes my
holidaymaker's total about pounds 25,000 from her pictures.

Having taken our two cocker spaniels for a walk around Burwood Park, Weybridge,
where I live, I spoke to Piers Morgan to discuss changes I want made in his
Tabloid Tales programme about my client Simon Cowell, which goes out on
Wednesday. Another call is to Haled Dergoul, brother of Tarek Dergoul, one of
the Guantanamo prisoners. I make it very clear that the British public will want
to know why he was in Afghanistan.

I speak to Bryan McFadden about how we are to handle his leaving Westlife, which
is to be announced at a press conference the next day. After a swim and a game
of tennis, I go to Christopher's, a children's hospice in Guildford that I
support.

In the afternoon I meet Nigel Farage, MEP, of the UK Independence Party, for
whom I do PR. Although I'm a Labour supporter and admirer of Tony Blair, I think
he has got it wrong on Europe. Nigel and I discuss Elizabeth Wingfield, the
council tax refusenik whom I have been advising on media matters.

Tuesday. I went into town to discuss Kerry and Bryan McFadden's appearance at
the Pride of Britain Awards tomorrow night , then on to Boodle and Dunthorne,
the Sloane Street jewellers, to discuss their PR. Louise Christian, who is doing
legal work for Tarek Dergoul, calls to tell me Tarek doesn't want me to advise
the family. I say I'll wait to be told that by him. After appearing on Richard
and Judy, I go for dinner at Scalini's in Wharton Street with Louise and Jo, my
PA, who drives me everywhere.

Wednesday. Another day at home. More dog-walking, sport and lunch at Cafe Aromas
in Cobham before going shopping in Sainsbury's, which I love doing, even though
I only seem to eat at home two or three times a week. In the evening, Louise and
I have a Thai meal in Guildford with friends. Lovely food but the phone won't
stop ringing - about Guantanamo. As Haled predicted, the prisoners are released
that night.

Thursday. For once, I get up early and do a round of TV and radio interviews
from home. I receive an embarrassed call from the friend of the Dergoul family
saying that Louise Christian insists on dropping me from helping them. It was
taking a lot of time and Louise Christian was making a difficult situation
impossible. The police drop by the office after a couple of death threats, which
tends to happen with this sort of story. In the evening I had dinner with Andy
Coulson, editor of the News of the World, to discuss the Kieren Fallon story and
another major exclusive we are working on.

Another well-known jockey, who is keen not to be dragged into the story, is
prepared to offer his help in exposing racing scams.

Friday. Jo takes me to the Barn, at Newlands Corner, a Surrey beauty spot, for
breakfast with Angela Levin from the Daily Mail to talk about some feature
ideas. Into the office for interviews with US TV on Tony Blair, and the BBC on
speed cameras damaging the image of the police. Dinner at The Ivy with Louise,
Jo and her daughter Jessica to celebrate her 18th birthday.

Saturday. Take the dogs round the park. Light lunch in Cobham. Swimming and
tennis at St George's and dinner in Ripley with Alex Karidis, one of the
country's leading cosmetic surgeons. Took various calls from Sunday tabloids on
exclusives they are running. At the last count, I have a hand in three of them.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                                7 of 7 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 3, 2004, Wednesday

THE WORLD ACCORDING TO... MAX CLIFFORD PUBLICIST

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 371 words


Which story are you proudest of?

The ones that helped bring down the last Tory Government, involving men like
David Mellor, Alan Clark and Piers Merchant. The stories got "sleaze" firmly
entrenched with "Conservative", and that was very damaging. Having seen them
destroy the NHS I was very pleased about that.

You advised Kerry McFadden not to do I'm a Celebrity, Get Me Out of Here!, which
she went on to win. Have you made any similar gaffes?

I'm sure, over the past 40 years, I must have. I'm happy she proved me wrong.

What habit do you find most annoying in other people?

Arrogance. I work with very rich, very famous and very successful people - and
they tend to think they are God's gift.

Is the council tax rebel Elizabeth Winkfield a relative of yours?

No! She reminds me in a lot of ways of my mum because she wasn't for turning,
either. The UK Independence Party is a client of mine. I'm just giving her some
free advice because she asked me for it.

Which country would you like to run?

This one. I spend most of my time here, and I like to have as much control as
possible of everything I'm involved with.

What's the most important thing you've learnt in life?

Treat as you find, treat as you'd like to be treated and make the most of every
day.

Should the monarchy be abolished?

No, they give me huge entertainment. Strange though they are, I think the pluses
outweigh the minuses.

How would you rebrand Blair?

He could use the media better. He's head and shoulders above any other
politician when it comes to charisma. So the more you see him on television, the
better. It's very easy to use television the right way to improve anybody's
popularity.

Why did we go to war with Iraq?

For a combination of reasons. At the time we genuinely believed that there were
weapons of mass destruction which could have been levelled at us anytime, what
Saddam Hussein was doing in terms of human rights, and probably there were a lot
of financial advantages.

Have you ever broken the law?

I've got to be careful what I say here. I would say that I'm a very law-abiding
person as far as it is humanly possible to be. Yes, I have broken the speed
limit.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd
