
                               1 of 20 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           February 29, 2004, Sunday

STOTTY ON SUNDAY: MAX'S TAX ON TRUTH

BYLINE: RICHARD STOTT

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 245 words


NOBODY likes to criticise an 83-year-old pensioner who appears to be
poverty-stricken and fighting for her rights against a monolithic and uncaring
State. Even better for the Government's sworn enemies when she is refusing to
pay her council tax and could end up in the slammer. What a martyr!

And what a load of nonsense it turned out to be. Elizabeth Winkfield's campaign
is being orchestrated by Max Clifford, a man whose relationship to truth is
passing, contemptuous and, in this case, delightfully disastrous.

She was exposed as a member of the far-right, get-out-of-Europe-at-any-cost UK
Independence Party. She is being paid pounds 10,000 by the Daily Mail and, if on
the basic pension, shouldn't be paying council tax anyway.

The Tories, led by "Two Brains" David Willetts, whose record of "dissembling"
gives him a Max Clifford-like approach to the truth, continued to use the old
girl as political cannon fodder even though she had been discredited,
championing her as a beacon of conscience fighting against the laws of an unjust
Government.

Those of us with inconveniently long memories well remember the frothing at the
mouth from Conservatives and the Daily Mail when trade unionists refused to
accept Tory anti-union legislation and went to jail for their beliefs. They were
derided as men determined to bring down democratic law in Britain for their own
ends.

Which brings us back to David Willetts, the Tories and the Daily Mail.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                               2 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               February 27, 2004

Universal condemnation of Tory MP for race joke

BYLINE: Gwladys Fouche

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 224 words


The Conservative MP Ann Winterton was condemned on all sides yesterday -
including by members of her constituency - for her joke about hungry sharks
"going for a Chinese" in Morecambe Bay where the cockle pickers were drowned.

It is the second time the MP for Congleton has made a racist joke at a private
evening function. The previous occasion, she was sacked from the front bench by
her then Tory leader, Iain Duncan Smith. This time, she lost the Tory whip after
refusing to apologise. Michael Howard, keen to hone his credentials as an
anti-racist after his Burnley speech, led the attack.

"I very much deplore what Ann Winterton said. What she said was unacceptable. I
am very sorry indeed she wasn't able to apologise for it. That is why she can no
longer be a member of the parliamentary Conservative party."

Last night it emerged that Ms Winterton was also treasurer to the all-party
Taiwan group, which promotes understanding between the island off China and
Britain. Her husband, Sir Nicholas, is vice-chairman.

Some Tory MPs now fear Ms Winterton might defect and run as a UK Independence
party candidate at the next election if local party activists move against her.

Fisheries minister Ben Bradshaw said yesterday that Ms Winterton's remarks were
"in the worst possible of taste".

G2 cover story


LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               3 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          February 26, 2004, Thursday

New council tax rebel 'will take protest to jail'

BYLINE: By Richard Savill

SECTION: News Pg. 12

LENGTH: 512 words

JUST as Tony Blair sighed with relief as the image of the council tax "martyr"
Elizabeth Winkfield was tarnished by the disclosure that she had sold her story
to a newspaper, another rebel emerged.

Sylvia Hardy, 72, said yesterday that she would take her protest to jail after
Exeter magistrates imposed a liability order for failing to pay pounds 91.28 on
her one-bedroom flat in the city.

Miss Hardy, a retired social worker, has sold her car to make ends meet. She is
standing today as an independent in a Devon county council by-election, calling
for reforms of the council tax system.

"This tax has got to go because it is so unfair, especially on people like me
who are struggling to get by on fixed incomes," she said. "I am not frightened
of going to prison. If you want to get your point across you have to be willing
to go the whole hog.

"When I was a social worker I had to visit prison on occasions and so I know
what they are like and I am prepared to go inside."

Miss Hardy's supporters outside court said they hoped she would get the council
tax campaign "back on track" after the "distraction" of the row over Miss
Winkfield's political motives.

Fellow campaigners have deserted Miss Winkfield, 83, alleging that the United
Kingdom Independence Party, of which she is a member, was using protests by the
Devon Pensioners Action Forum to promote its anti-European views.

They were incensed to discover that Max Clifford, the publicist, who handles
public relations for the UKIP, was representing Miss Winkfield. Mr Clifford was
involved in the sale of Miss Winkfield's story to the Daily Mail for a
"substantial" sum.

Miss Hardy said yesterday that she hoped the row over Miss Winkfield would not
be a backward step. She said that if Mr Clifford approached her "the air would
be blue with what I would say to him".

Miss Hardy has refused to pay her full bill of pounds 644. Instead she has paid
the previous year's tax plus 1.7 per cent, the increase in her pension.

"I am not destitute," she said. "But I am trying to preserve some quality of
life. I have already had to give up my car and take out an equity release on my
home.

"One example is the carpet in my flat, which is threadbare. I cannot afford to
replace it so I have to cover it with cheap rugs."

Albert Venison, the chairman of the Devon Pensioners Action Forum, said many
people were in a situation similar to Miss Hardy.

"I expect them to be clogging the courts of this county and beyond in the weeks
to come," he said. "The Government will soon find out that they cannot lock up
all of them."

Michael Howard, the Tory leader, said yesterday that council tax had risen by 60
per cent under Labour.

He challenged Mr Blair to take responsibility for the rise, claiming that it was
largely due to the Government increasing the burdens on local councils.

Mr Blair denied that the Government was to blame. He told the Commons that local
authorities in England had been given enough money in grants from Whitehall to
mean there was "no reason" for large council tax rises.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               4 of 20 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          February 26, 2004, Thursday

BRIAN READE: EU'RE A FRAUD, LIZ

BYLINE: BRIAN READE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 252 words


OH, how those bleeding-heart non-Liberals wept for that doughty little old lady
who took on the government single-handed by refusing to pay her council tax.

What a brave heroine, eh? Erm, not quite. It turns out that Elizabeth Winkfield
is an activist for the UK Independence Party. Her court protest was
stage-managed by the party's placard-waving goons, and made the papers thanks to
their publicist, Max Clifford.

Deputy PM John Prescott was spot-on. This wasn't about a desperate old dear
unable to pay her way. It was about a political extremist who has been
protesting about paying ANY rates for years, not because of unacceptable rises
but because her local council supports EU initiatives.

It's difficult to know exactly how short of money she is. If she's so hard up,
how come she gave her car to the UKIP three years ago as a fundraiser?

And why, if, as she claims, she lives solely on her pounds 77-a-week pension, is
she paying council tax in the first place?

The majority of journalists who wanted to clear up these matters were banned
from her house because the poor old girl was suffering from a bout of
laryngitis.

So bad was it that she could only squeeze out two exclusive party political
broadcasts - I mean interviews - with Trevor McDonald Tonight and the Daily
Mail.

So let's not feel too sorry for this plucky little rebel, eh?

If she does get banged up, Max Clifford will ensure she adds a nought to the
pounds 10,000 already paid to her for her story.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                               5 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               February 25, 2004

I'VE NEVER TAKEN A PENNY FROM THE STATE AND MR PRESCOTT CERTAINLY DOES NOT
FRIGHTEN ME

BYLINE: FRANCES HARDY

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1975 words


ELIZABETH Winkfield's mail settles on her doormat in drifts; a flurry of warmly
supportive letters.

Among the 50a-day goodwill messages from strangers that arrive at her modest
home on the North Devon coast is one bearing her name, and addressed merely to
'A bungalow in Westward Ho!' Another asks simply, 'Postman: would you please
deliver this to a very courageous lady in Devon'. Alongside is pasted a
newspaper photo featuring Miss Winkfield in her grey hat and home-made suit.

Miss Winkfield - diminutive in stature, but heroic in spirit - is an unlikely
candidate for overnight celebrity. But at the age of 83 she has attained such
sudden status as Britain's oldest council-tax rebel.

Last Thursday, the unlikely settling of Barnstaple Magistrates' Court was the
forum for her personal revolt. There she made a stand, declaring herself ready
to go to prison rather than pay an outstanding Pounds 98.91 in council tax that
she believes is both unfair and unjustified.

And in so doing, she became the unwitting focus of a national political debate,
the scope and compass of which has bewildered, perplexed and unnerved her.

The modest Miss Winkfield - besieged by the media, besmirched by the Left as the
puppet of political groups, vilified as an anarchist in a tweed suit and
browbeaten by the Deputy Prime Minister on BBC1's Breakfast With Frost - has
been forced to retreat from the unremitting onslaught behind the front door of
her bungalow.

'I decided to take this stance on behalf of all pensioners,' she says. 'And the
reaction has overwhelmed me.

'Nobody told me what to do and I wasn't put up to it by anyone. None of my
friends knew anything about my intentions until a couple of days before I was
due in court and I asked one of them to give me a lift.

'People say I'm brave and it's very kind of them.

But I don't think I am at all. I haven't done anything. If I'd been asked to
make a speech in public I'd have run a mile. I've just refused to pay a bill I
think is unfair, excessive and unnecessary.

'As I walked into court, on the pavement there was a battery of cameramen facing
me and I couldn't believe I was the cause of all the attention. For a minute I
wished I'd stayed at home.

But I just walked on, as you would through a thunderstorm. I couldn't turn back.

'I wouldn't pay the bill if I were a millionaire, and I'm not refusing to pay
because I can't afford it. I'm making a stand because it is iniquitous.

And I'm doing so on behalf of all pensioners, particularly those who haven't got
the money to meet the cost.

YES, I'll go to prison if I have to. It's no good starting something then
backing out, is it?

I haven't got any relatives or family to embarrass. I've thought it through. I'm
not frightened, whatever Mr Prescott threatens. I would have been frightened
years ago, but life toughens you, doesn't it?' Such is the resilience of the
redoubtable Miss Winkfield, who, despite her advancing years and fragile health
(she suffers from asthma and a persistent cough that evolved into a bronchial
infection at the weekend), refuses to be cowed or rescind.

In the face of the furious political storm that has whipped up around her, she
maintains a steadfast, unwavering course.

Yesterday, Labour backbencher Clive Soley even suggested in the House of Commons
that she was driven purely by an anti-European agenda, and was being manipulated
as part of political scaremongering.

However, anyone meeting Miss Winkfield in person would soon realise such a
charge is preposterous. While she has firm political convictions, she denies
absolutely the charge that some have made that the UK Independence Party (UKIP)
- of which she is a member - stage-managed her protest from the outset.

'They knew nothing about it until I mentioned, a couple of days before I went to
court, that I might have to go to prison,' she says.

She sought the assistance of the UKIP's media spokesman, Max Clifford, only
because the public furore was overwhelming and endangering her health.

Her riposte to Local Government Minister Nick Raynsford - who has
condescendingly offered to get her some advice on her eligibility for a
council-tax rebate - is that she doesn't need his counsel and probably isn't
entitled to a discount anyway.

Miss Winkfield is a tiny, birdlike woman of 4ft 10in, who weighs little over
seven stone and seems enveloped by the armchair in which she sits. Yet her
stature belies a steely resolve.

Her intransigence has palpably rattled the Government and led Mr Prescott to
bluster that she must 'face up to her responsibilities' and pay the outstanding
council tax.

To this, Miss Winkfield's reply is short, sharp and to the point. 'I take no
notice of him,' she says, with a dismissive wave of her hand, as if swatting at
a bothersome fly. 'I suppose he's obliged to tell me to pay. But I wonder how
he'd justify his last salary rise.' The Deputy Prime Minister has three homes, a
brace of Jaguars and receives Pounds 130,000 a year. Miss Winkfield, on the
contrary, subsists on a state pension of Pounds 77 a week supplemented by the
interest on savings accrued during a life of hard work and parsimony.

She still tends her own vegetable garden, enjoys a robust walk along the
Devonshire coast, and until 18 months ago, drove a car - an elderly red Ford
Fiesta.

UNSURPRISINGLY, she has never before transgressed the law. 'I haven't even had a
parking ticket,' she says. Neither has she ever claimed a penny in social
security benefits.

She scrimped and saved - at one time taking in lodgers - to pay for the
two-bedroom bungalow in Westward Ho! to which she retired 21 years ago.

This year, her council tax on the Band C property rose to Pounds 747.

Miss Winkfield thought the rise - almost 20 per cent - exorbitant and resolved
to pay only a twoanda-half per cent increase, in line with inflation. With court
costs and the summons charge, her debt - the first she has ever owed in a life
of blameless civil obedience - now amounts to Pounds 133.90.

'I've been told the bailiffs will come to my house next,' she says, undaunted.
'I'll just tell them to go away. I've no intention of handing over anything. I'm
not frightened of them either,' she adds.

Underlying Miss Winkfield's intransigence is a firm belief that local councils
are frittering taxes on fripperies and bureaucracy.

'The council produces fancy booklets and magazines - lovely for children to look
at - with coloured pictures, that are frankly a waste of money. They put up
decorative lighting in the town centre and a fountain in the river.

'But where are the policemen when you need them? The council seems more
interested in bringing tourists to the area than helping the people who live
here.' She believes Britain should cut links with Europe - hence her support for
the UK Independence Party, though she is adamant that she is not a publicity
stooge. She is just a parsimonious pensioner who believes her modest income is
being wasted by a government with little interest for people like her.

'We are pouring money down the drain and donating millions of pounds a year to
Brussels,' she says.

'We pay farmers not to farm, we fine fishermen for catching the wrong sort of
fish and we subsidise tobacco production in Europe.

Then the Government spends millions of pounds in TV advertising telling us not
to smoke.' SUCH anomalies rankle. Miss Winkfield's brain is pin-sharp and she
remains acutely conscious of the inequity of a government that penalises the
thrifty for their self-sufficiency while subsidising the profligacy of the
feckless with state handouts.

'So many people - if I dare say it - instead of just coping by themsleves, as I
have done, take all they can from the State. I have never taken a penny in
benefits,' she says.

She contests - with laughter - that her frugality has bordered on meanness.

Her friends say she is 'thrifty'. She wears home-sewn clothes and abhors waste.
She does not own a television - 'there is so much rubbish on these days' - and
would have been oblivious to the TV coverage of her case had not friends
enlightened her to it.

The publicity furore that has ensued has unnerved her. 'I'd far rather face the
bailiffs than the pack of cameramen outside my house,' she says wryly.

Self-sufficiency and independence are the cornerstones of her life. She has
never sought credit and has always lived, scrupulously, within her means.

Indeed, Elizabeth Winkfield, born in 1920 in a nursing home in Handsworth,
Birmingham, the only child of farmers William and Mary, was raised in a
pre-Welfare State era when self-reliance was a prerequisite of survival.

She left school at 14 and went to work in the offices of the Royal Enfield
Motorcycle Company in Redditch, Worcestershire. Various jobs in shops and
offices ensued.

Then she took a post as a housekeeper-Later, she cared for the elderly in their
own homes.

She never married and contends that this is not a source of regret.

'I had a sweetheart on and off, but then the war intervened. I don't regret not
marrying. Circumstances happen.' Her voice trails off.

Miss Winkfield looked after her ailing father in the last years of his life - he
died when he was 91, while she was in her 40s - and you suspect, although she
does not say as much, that such selflessness inhibited her chances of
establishing a family life of her own.

But rancour and bitterness do not figure in her emotional repertoire: she merely
gets on with things.

How would her father view the stance she is taking now?

'I don't think he'd like the idea of my going to prison,' she laughs, 'but he
would support me otherwise,' she says. 'He liked to think of England as a
strong, independent country; everybody did in those days.' Miss Winkfield moved
to Devon at the age of 62 because the climate and countryside appealed to her.

When I met her she was clearly unwell - lowered by an infection brought on by
the stress of a frenetic week and almost unable to speak - but she refused to
call a doctor.

'I just need time to get better,' she said crisply, when I offered to help.

But a couple of days later she now looks spry and rested; her white hair neatly
curled and a dab of powder on her face.

She wears neat, purple corduroy slacks and a matching knitted jumper. Her shoes
are sturdy and sensible; footwear favoured by walkers. She still loves to hike
across the countryside.

Paradoxically, in her advancing years her favourite holidays have been visits to
youth hostels all over Britain and she has followed the full 60 miles of the
Tarka Trail - the walk named after the otter in the book Ring Of Bright Water.

In her garden she still grows her own vegetables. 'It was a wilderness when I
got there,' she says.

'The dandelion roots were as big as parsnips. I dug them out and put in leeks,
runner beans, broad beans and onions. I grow them all still, although soon I
might need some help,' she concedes.

There has been no posse of council carers tending to Miss Winkfield; no
solicitous visits from homehelps; no handouts; no special benefits. Miss
Winkfield contends she does not need them. One suspects, if municipal help
arrived, she would send it packing.

Until recently she did all her own home decorating, even climbing a ladder to
paint the outside of her bungalow.

'I have to be independent,' she says stoically. 'I have no family.' She gives
the culture of dependency short-shrift.

'Goodness knows, they spend so much on helping people but in the end it is
counterproductive. It just puts up the rates for everyone else.

'That's why I'm doing this. For myself and on behalf of all pensioners who have
saved for retirement only to see it all taken away in taxes.'

END

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               6 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          February 25, 2004, Wednesday

Anger as 83-year-old council tax rebel sells story to paper

BYLINE: By Richard Savill

SECTION: News Pg. 08

LENGTH: 566 words

THE 83-year-old woman who became the symbol of a pensioners' revolt against the
council tax was close to being abandoned by her own supporters last night after
the disclosure that the publicist Max Clifford had become involved in selling
her story.

Elizabeth Winkfield was reported to have been paid up to pounds 10,000 by a
national newspaper.

Miss Winkfield is a member of the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP),
which is opposed to British membership of the European Union. Her motive for
refusing to pay all her council tax was apparently not a shortage of money, but
her opposition to her local authority supporting activities in Brussels

Yesterday the usually loquacious Miss Winkfield was keeping quiet, claiming she
had bronchitis. However, other pensioners spoke with dismay about how she had
confused the issue and they said they might have to distance themselves from
her.

Malcolm Hipwell, a founder member of Plymouth branch of the National Pensioners'
Convention, which supported Miss Winkfield last week when she appeared in court,
said he felt "cheated".

He added: "The convention did not know she was a member of the UKIP. If we had
known she was protesting on the European issue we would not have supported her.
We support elderly people who cannot afford the tax. She is in danger of
damaging our campaign. This was a nasty trick."

Albert Venison, the chairman of the Devon Pensioners' Action Group, which also
supported Miss Winkfield, said: "If this is going to reflect on what we are
trying to do, perhaps it is time to part company. This campaign is about an
unfair tax, which millions of pensioners cannot afford to pay. Max Clifford has
obviously hijacked her. He should keep out of it."

Miss Winkfield, of Westward Ho, Devon, said last week that she would rather go
to jail than comply with a liability order made by a court for non-payment of
some of her council tax. She withheld pounds 98 of her pounds 747 council tax
bill.

Last night Mr Clifford, who handles public relations for the UKIP, said: "I set
about making sure she [Miss Winkfield] became a national institution and that
the UKIP was very much involved with that."

He confirmed that Miss Winkfield was doing an interview with the Daily Mail. He
added: "She is not being paid pounds 10,000 by the Daily Mail but she is being
paid substantially by the newspaper.

"All I am trying to do is to make sure the UKIP is at the centre of this. She
shares the same views. She is an active supporter." He rejected the suggestion
that Miss Winkfield could be muddying the waters. "She is protesting on the
European issue. Other people have different complaints. Let's hope those people
are also able to get their message across loud and clear. They are protesting
for their reasons, she is protesting for hers."

David Johnson, a UKIP member and a friend of Miss Winkfield, said: "The only
reason that Max Clifford got involved was to help relieve some of this pressure.
He works for UKIP nationally and he seemed an obvious choice."

In a previously unpublished interview, conducted at the weekend, Miss Winkfield
said: "I support the UKIP and I believe a lot of the waste is caused by Europe.

"I believe that if we got back the money that goes to Europe the Government
could do a lot more for pensioners like me and they could afford to sort out the
problems caused by the council tax."

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               7 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               February 25, 2004

ROW OVER TAX MARTYR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 111 words


SUPPORTERS of council tax rebel Elizabeth Winkfield hit back yesterday at a bid
to discredit her fight.

Labour MP Clive Soley said the 83-yearold's non-payment protest had been
hijacked by an antiEuropean Union party.

Miss Winkfield, from Westward Ho! in Devon, has declared she is prepared to go
to jail, rather than pay an 18 per cent rise in her bill.

Mr Soley claimed Elizabeth was objecting to funds going to EU government
structure.

But UK Independence Party spokesman David Johnson said it was "ludicrous" to
suggest the party had used her, adding: "She would have made her stand whether
she belonged to UKIP or the Women's Institute."

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               8 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               February 25, 2004

OPPOSITION TO EU EXISTS ACROSS THE CONTINENT

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 84 words


EUROPEAN Commission assistant auditor Paul van Buitenen, a Dutchman, became a
celebrity in 1998 for 'blowing the whistle' on abundant fraud in EU
institutions.

This ultimately led to the collapse of the Santer Commission in 1999.

His Europa Transparant is expected to take seats in the EU elections in June.

It is not just the UK Independence Party here which opposes the European Union.
Opposition movements exist across the Continent - in one form or another.

L Arnott, Sheffield

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               9 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          February 25, 2004, Wednesday

Pensioner loses tax support by blaming Europe

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: Home news; 9

LENGTH: 483 words


ELIZABETH WINKFIELD, the Devon pensioner facing jail for refusing to pay her
council tax, was disowned yesterday by the organisation running pensioner
protests across the country.

Her former supporters now accuse her of using the issue to advance the UK
Independence Party (UKIP), which is opposed to British membership of the
European Union. She has also enraged fellow campaigners after it emerged that
last week's court appearance had been "stagemanaged" by the PR consultant Max
Clifford.

Ms Winkfield, 83, who lives alone on the basic state pension in Westward Ho!,
was summoned to Barnstaple Magistrates' Court in North Devon after withholding
£98.80 of her £747.81 council tax bill.

Last year the council tax in Torridge district rose by 18 per cent. Ms Winkfield
said that she paid only 2.5 per cent more than the previous year because it
seemed "a reasonable amount".

It has since emerged that Mr Clifford was brought in the day before the court
appearance to ensure that the event got maximum publicity and that the UKIP was
"not forgotten" in the coverage.

Christine Melsom, the founder and head of IsItFair?, a non-political group
organising the protests, told The Times that she was very unhappy. "I felt sick
when I read about it in the paper. I would like to distance my group from the
UKIP and any attempt to associate us with them."

She said she was angry that her members had spent time and effort supporting an
event which had been manipulated by Mr Clifford. "I would like to think everyone
is fighting about council tax, not for a political campaign," she said.

"We have been courted by other political parties but it is not appropriate for
us to get involved with them."

Mr Clifford, who advises the UKIP on public relations, confirmed his involvement
in last week's event. He said that Nigel Farge, a UKIP member of the European
Parliament, had contacted him to ask his advice because the group "wanted to
make sure that the UKIP was not forgotten".

The story duly got front-page coverage and last weekend Ms Winkfield appeared
alongside John Prescott on the BBC One Breakfast with Frost programme.

Last night Ms Winkfield could not be contacted. Despite suffering from
laryngitis and bronchitis, she was preparing for a series of interviews with a
tabloid newspaper and Tonight with Trevor McDonald on ITV1.

Mr Clifford said that Ms Winkfield links the UKIP with the council tax because
she blames Europe for the large increases. She makes no secret of her party
membership. "Her main problem is that this is control from Brussels. She sees
faceless people who she hasn't voted for spending her money and is unhappy with
that," he said.

Meanwhile, Mrs Melsom vowed last night to fight on. Sylvia Hardy, 72, a retired
social worker, will appear before magistrates in Exeter today over arrears of
£91.

Letters, page 23


LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               10 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               February 24, 2004

G2: To begin with I thought she was the little old lady who couldnt pay. Now it
seems she was coming from another angle: She was hailed as the rebel dressed in
tweed. But, asks Oliver Burkeman, is Elizabeth Winkfield the political innocent
she appears?

BYLINE: Oliver Burkeman

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1356 words


The windswept Devonshire seaside resort of Westward Ho! has long had a single
claim to fame - it is the only place in Britain with an exclamation mark in its
name - and until last week there was no reason to suspect that Elizabeth
Winkfield, of all people, was about to provide another. But then the diminutive
83-year-old former shopworker was summoned to appear before magistrates, having
refused to pay the whole of a council tax bill she considered excessive. She
walked out of the courtroom on Thursday to be greeted by a crowd of
placard-waving supporters - and by the time Friday's Daily Mail arrived in
newsagents, she was well on the way to becoming a national hero.

"The tax rebel dressed in tweed," as the Mail's front-page headline gleefully
anointed her, seemed almost too good to be true. She was as different from the
aggressive poll tax protesters as it was possible to imagine; she had never
claimed benefits; she had never been in trouble with the law. As the national
media descended on Winkfield's bungalow, Labour politicians seemed to severely
misjudge the mood. "You have to face up to your responsibilities," an
unsympathetic John Prescott told Winkfield during a joint appearance on the
BBC's Breakfast With Frost.

You would have had to study last week's coverage in considerable detail to catch
even a hint that there was a deeper story behind the sudden fame of Elizabeth
Winkfield - an operation in which the rightwing UK Independence party (UKIP)
turns out to have been centrally in volved, laying the groundwork for a media
sensation that the country's leading publicist, Max Clifford, last night
admitted he had "engineered". "To begin with," says Mark Clough, a reporter for
the Plymouth-based Western Morning News, who had been following the story, "I
thought it was 'little old lady couldn't afford to pay'. But now it seems
possible that Miss Winkfield was coming from a very different angle."

The Devon Pensioners Action Forum had been promoting the cause of elderly people
unable to pay their soaring council tax bills for the best part of six years,
but Albert Venison, the 79-year-old who runs the group from his Axminster home,
had not exactly been inconvenienced by overwhelming national attention. "When we
started, eight or nine of us formed a committee, and we held a public meeting in
a church hall," he says. Membership increased gradually, reaching about 500.
Many, including Winkfield, agreed that they would not pay any council tax rise
beyond the rate of inflation, but few had been summoned to appear in court
before her. "I think they're just picking people at random," Venison says, "and
this time they picked the wrong one." Venison - who says his group is
non-party-political, and that he voted for Tony Blair in 1997 - was widely
quoted in the coverage of the Winkfield case, making the case for low-income
pensioners, who become ineligible for council tax exemption if their income
exceeds the £77 weekly state pension.

This does not, however, appear to have been the main reason for Winkfield's
protest - and certainly not the main reason why it was catapulted to national
prominence. The 83-year-old is an active member of another organ isation, the UK
Independence party, which is staunchly opposed to British membership of the
European Union: when she became unable to drive three years ago for health
reasons, a party spokesman said yesterday, she even donated her car to the local
party so that it could be sold to raise funds. It was at a UKIP meeting, a
Sunday newspaper reported, that she had heard about how some council tax revenue
is spent on EU-level regional assemblies, motivating her to decide to withhold
payments. "She argues that her council is guilty of making illegal payments to
the SW Regional Assembly and a SW Brussels office, for which it has no mandate,
and that council tax should be only for local services," reads a UKIP press
release. (Fred Estall, 80, who appeared in court in January for refusing to pay
his tax, is also a member.)

When Winkfield was ordered to appear in court, she told her friend David
Johnson, another UKIP member. He told Nigel Farage, a UKIP member of the
European Parliament who represents south-east England. And on Wednesday, the day
before Winkfield was due to appear before magistrates, Nigel Farage told Max
Clifford.

"(Farage) spotted her and he phoned me to say 'What do you think of it?' and I
said 'It's a national story.'" Clifford told the Guardian last night. "You don't
have to be a brain surgeon, do you? It's a little old lady of 83, who's bright,
and got principles, et cetera, et cetera." The publicist, who had been doing
public relations for UKIP for several months, seized his chance. "I planted it,"
he says. "If it hadn't been on the front page of the Mail, it would have been on
the front page of the Sun the next day. I knew it was a front page."

Winkfield has been quoted as saying that she would have been "terrified out of
her wits" had she predicted the media frenzy that followed. "She's a little old
lady who's thrown herself into what she thought would be a local storm, and
found it's a national storm, which I suppose I've engineered," Clifford says.
UKIP made sure there were supporters ready to greet her at the court: John
Kelly, the party's regional spokesman, estimates that about half of the
placard-wavers were members.

Mark Croucher, national spokesman for UKIP, insists that the decision to involve
Clifford was a charitable one - made after the story blew up. "Nigel Farage made
that decision . . . because Elizabeth couldn't keep up," he says. "Her house was
surrounded by TV cameras and reporters. People wanted to buy her life story, so
it was decided to direct everybody through Max."

A note on Winkfield's door yesterday explained that she was suffering from
bronchitis and laryngitis and would not be speaking to the media. Her phone rang
unanswered and she was understood to be at Johnson's house. There was an
additional reason for her silence. She has sold her story to the Daily Mail for
an estimated £10,000, and will appear on Tonight With Trevor McDonald tomorrow
night. "She could have done 20 interviews but she's done none," Clifford says.
"She's had quite a relaxing day because she's a little asthmatic today."

Working on behalf of UKIP, some of whose members have been linked to extreme
right-wing organisations, seems an odd departure for Clifford, who has never
made any secret of the fact that he is a Labour supporter. He remains one, he
says, but opposes the government's position on Europe and has agreed to handle
UKIP public relations until the election. He denies that Winkfield's involvement
with the UKIP undermines her stand. "It's not a party-political broadcast. It's
her standing up for what she thinks is right."

Winkfield, says one reporter who worked on the story, "always admitted that she
was a member of the UK Independence party, but I think it was conveniently
forgotten by the media. Everybody knew about it, but didn't really mention it,
because it would have affected the story. They just wanted the pint-sized
pensioner." Meanwhile, the impression continues to spread that Winkfield refused
to pay the bill because she could not afford to: Venison says he has been
telephoned by her local authority, wondering what they should do with the
cheques people are sending them to help settle her account. And a new twist was
added yesterday when Nick Raynsford, the local government minister, pointed out
that, if Winkfield is only receiving her state pension, she ought not to be
paying any council tax at all. (She has not revealed her income, but says she
would have made the same protest had she been a millionaire.)

Winkfield may have been taken aback by the national storm that she has caused -
or that, perhaps, has been caused on her behalf - but Albert Venison, at the
Devon Pensioners Action Forum, does not think she is likely to be defeated by
it. "She's quite an independent maiden lady, you know," he says. "She's used to
knowing what she wants to do and going her own way."


LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               11 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 23, 2004, Monday

Prescott praises pensioner's stand over council tax

BYLINE: David Charter, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 561 words


JOHN PRESCOTT yesterday praised the 83-year-old council tax rebel prepared to go
to prison for non-payment as a "marvellous" campaigner.

The Deputy Prime Minister said that Elizabeth Winkfield's remarkable spirit
should serve as an example to others to remain politically active.

But he followed up with a warning to Mrs Winkfield, yesterday identified as a
member of the anti-European Union UK Independence Party, not to break the law.

Mr Prescott added that he would use his powers to cap council tax rises if local
authorities did not keep them in "low single figures".

He said that councils were responding to pressure to reduce their rises,
including in Mrs Winkfield's county of Devon, where there was a "limbo dance"
going on to keep the increase down.

Mr Prescott's remarks come after the disclosure last week by The Times that the
average council tax rise, due to be announced next month, would be 7 per cent.

That prompted a concerted bout of arm-twisting with councils preparing the
steepest increases, including a series of hastily convened meetings with
ministers and letters to 65 town halls giving warning of potential capping
moves.

Mr Prescott told BBC One's Breakfast with Frost: "There is a bit of limbo
dancing going on and it is still going on. But make no mistake, if you do not
get under that line I am going to cap."

Mrs Winkfield told the programme that she had been inundated with letters and
phone calls of support. "I am not paying because it is not right," she added.

She said that she had no idea what a prison was like inside. "I never dreamt I
was likely to get anywhere near one. I have seen the outside of one or two
perhaps, from the road. But if enough people rebel, the courts will be full of
these people, the prisons will be over-full. They won't have room for me then.
They will be full of other pensioners."

Mr Prescott said: "Isn't it marvellous that somebody who is 83 feels politically
strong enough and wanting to do something about a problem she is very much
concerned about? I think that is remarkable and encourage more and more people .
.

. keep going. Many congratulations.

"She is right to be concerned. Indeed, we have been ourselves...The council tax
is largely property-based and as property prices have been going up many people
like Mrs Winkfield find themselves in a position where they are asset rich in
their house but income-poor.

"I do not know whether she gets any assistance or is entitled to any assistance,
because there are about 1.5 million pensioners who just do not take that
assistance."

Nick Raynsford, the Local Government Minister, also suggested that council tax
rises would be "significantly" smaller than last year.

He told Sky TV's Sunday with Adam Boulton: "The levels are coming down very,
very significantly. The sort of figures I am seeing are very different to last
year. In general the figures are well into single figures. Last year we had an
increase of something of the order of 13 per cent, which was far, far too high."

Ed Davey, the Liberal Democrat local government spokesman, said: "John Prescott
suggests that councils are limbo dancing to avoid his caps. yet it is Mr
Prescott who has got two left feet over the future of council tax. He should
stop dancing around the issue and scrap council tax, not cap it."


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               12 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           February 22, 2004, Sunday

SWEET LITTLE OLD TAX REBEL' PROMOTED BY RIGHT WINGERS

BYLINE: ANDREW JOHNSON Winkfield: worried about council tax going to the EU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 593 words


As she tottered out of magistrates court last week, Elizabeth Winkfield, 4ft
10in tall and 83 years old, stepped into the limelight as a figurehead for a
growing revolt against council tax charges up and down the country.

Her refusal to pay pounds 98 of her pounds 747 council tax bill was greeted with
cheers by supporters and has made her a martyr to a people's revolt gathering
momentum. But The Independent on Sunday can reveal that publicity surrounding
the case of Ms Winkfield was no fluke. Her very public court appearance is owed
at least in part to behind-the-scenes engineering by the UK Independence Party -
a minority right-wing political party that wants to see Britain pull out of
Europe.

Ms Winkfield is a member of the UKIP, as is another pensioner who also made
headlines last month when he refused to pay up. Last week's action was
co-organised by the Devon Pensioners Action Forum - run by Albert Venison, 78,
who has addressed UKIP meetings - and the UKIP itself.

John Kelly, a regional spokesman for the UKIP, said: "We are giving pounds 11bn
a year to the European Union. The issue with council tax is that the Government
wants to set up regional assemblies. In the South-west, pounds 1m of the pounds
5m cost will be levied on the district council. It's a tax by stealth. They are
making council tax payers support a political experiment. We had a public
meeting in Axminster this month and Albert Venison spoke on our platform. But we
are absolutely not trying to take over."

Ms Winkfield, from Westward Ho!, had not expected the legions of national
newspaper and television reporters who greeted her. Nor had she anticipated the
large crowd of placard-waving supporters - half of whom are thought to be from
the UKIP.

Ms Winkfield told The Independent on Sunday: "If I'd known what was going to
happen I would have been terrified out of my wits. I was only expecting one or
two people from the local press."

Friends say it was a claim at a UKIP meeting that a proportion of Ms Winkfield's
council tax ends up in European coffers that sparked her anger over the council
tax. "I told the UKIP and the action forum that I was going, and they must have
told other people," she said. "I didn't ask them for any help or advice. Money
going to Europe is one of the things I'm concerned about. The expenses of the
council leader is four times my income. But if I was a millionaire I'd say the
same."

Another pensioner, Fred Estall, 80, from Southampton, who appeared in court last
month for non-payment of his council tax, is also a UKIP member. "I'm involved
in the council tax campaign because of the UKIP," he said. "We're trying to get
involved in local government, to get ourselves known. The council tax campaign
was a good chance to get involved with the community, and so it turned out to
be. It did start from my UKIP work, but I'm a member of the Meon Valley Action
Group and that work is non-political."

The national campaign against high council tax rises is called Is It Fair? and
affiliates local groups. It began last year when retired army major John Melsom
and his wife Christine, from Hampshire, gave an interview to their local paper
when council tax went up by 15 per cent. That led to a website, which quickly
resulted in a national campaign.

"I never expected it to become so big," she said. "But no party politics are
allowed. There is no political affiliation, although we've had a few of the
smaller parties trying to jump on the bandwagon. But we've said no to all of
them."

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               13 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               February 21, 2004

COUNCIL TAX MARTYR SAYS CUTTING BILLS WILL BE EASY; BATTLING LIZ: I'LL SORT OUT
BRITAIN

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE ByNick Constable

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6 7

LENGTH: 969 words


SHE has already won the nation's heart with unflinching defiance in the face of
financially crippling council tax rises.

Now 83-year-old Elizabeth Winkfield, the Devon spinster who insists she will go
to prison before paying, has revealed exactly how she would cut public spending
to give British householders a fairer deal.

In an exclusive interview with the Daily Express, the woman who has become the
embodiment of the middleclass revolt against inflationbusting tax rises pointed
to key areas which she said would balance council budgets and ensure fair play
for an outraged public.

Her refusal to pay Torridge District Council the outstanding GBP 98.80 on her
GBP 747.81 council tax bill for her modest band C home has turned her into a
martyr for Middle Britain.

Yet sitting in an easy chair by the electric fire in her twobedroom bungalow at
Westward Ho! , a seaside resort near Bideford, she seems an unlikely
revolutionary. Her lounge is decorated with family heirlooms. A cupboard her
father made. An old bureau from the family farm.

Oil paintings portraying the countryside of her childhood.

Her purple sweater is handknitted; the matching slacks regularly mended rather
than cast out. Neither is properly filled out by her slender, 4ft 10in frame.

Rather than fretting about a jail term, her main concern is her garden, and the
prospects for this year's leeks and runner beans. However, the very mention of
spiralling council taxes ignites a fire in her eyes which might just trouble the
Prime Minister. If it doesn't, it should.

As a woman whose entire life has been devoted to thrift and hard work, she
believes she is as well qualified as any mayor or minister to offer solutions.

Miss Winkfield, who attended court wearing a home-made grey tweed suit and a hat
bought from a jumble sale, has heard endless excuses from local authorities -
higher National Insurance costs, rising premiums for cover, tougher waste
disposal laws.

But she believes that politicians from the three main parties ignore obvious
savings. Her manifesto is simple.

"I'd start with Europe, " she said. "I'd have no qualms about taking us out and
I'd wish the best of luck to other European nations in doing their own thing.

"However you dress the arguments up, the truth is that this country's enormous
wealth could then be used directly for the good of our own people instead of
subsidising others.

"I wouldn't mind so much if our money provided better services. But it doesn't.
Apparently, 39 per cent of my council tax goes towards policing. In return, we
get a couple of policemen driving past in a car every so often.

"If I was a burglar I'd just hang around till they'd gone. You wouldn't have to
wait long."

"Then there's the wasteful spending. Why are there so many street lights
burning, night and day? Why are all these statues and fountains and pretty
walkways considered more important than the ability of OAPs to pay their bills?

"Why do we have councillors and officers jet-setting around the world for
goodwill visits and conferences at our expense?

Most of all, why don't we have a tax system properly linked to income? Why
should a pensioner pay more than two working people sharing a house?

"The answer to all these questions is that too many politicians are living lives
completely divorced from ordinary people like me.

"I'm not a courageous person.

I'm not one to get up and start leading others. But if I can draw attention to a
great wrong by doing nothing - that is, not paying the GBP 98 - then I will.

"I'm not volunteering for prison but if the court sends me then I will have to
go. It's easy for me, because I've nothing of value for the bailiffs and putting
me on a credit blacklist won't matter. I don't own a credit card and this
council tax is the first proper debt I've ever had."

Miss Winkfield, who survives on a basic state pension and small interest
payments from her savings, has no desire for riches or luxuries.

Brought up in rural Warwickshire, she and her parents William and Mary moved to
a rented farm at Astwood Bank, Worcestershire, when she was six. She well
remembers the deprivation of the war years, how they scrimped and saved.

After school, she worked at a bicycle and motorcycle factory, and later found
whatever shop work she could.

In later life, she gave up work to nurse her elderly father. When he died, she
moved in to nurse a friend with heart disease.

She denies being used by the Devon Pensioners Action Forum - which is leading
the national council tax revolt -or the UK Independence Party, of which she is a
member.

"I'd forgotten I was a member of the Action Forum, " she said.

"And I never mentioned to UKIP what I was doing. Someone, somewhere, has got to
say enough is enough, - so it might as well be me."

Back in 1998, the first year of Tony Blair's administration, she paid GBP 472.61
council tax (after a single person's discount of GBP 157.54) on her band C
property.

Today, her GBP 747.81 bill after discount represents a rise of more than 50 per
cent in five years.

It is her refusal to pay GBP 98.80 of this bill - the amount she considers
unreasonable, given the country's low inflation rates - which threatens to put
her in prison. Much of last year's increase came from Devon County Council's
decision to raise council tax by 18 per cent.

Miss Winkfield is now awaiting Torridge Council's next step. It won a liability
order against her from a court at Barnstaple on Thursday, entitling officers to
send in the bailiffs.

If she turns them away, the council can apply for an enforcement order - the
first step on the road to a prison term which could spell political trouble for
Torridge Council, Devon County Council . . . and Tony Blair.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               14 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               February 18, 2004

Rio saga prompts Coward's way out

BYLINE: CHARLES SALE

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 90

LENGTH: 616 words


THE Rio Ferdinand drugs-test saga has claimed a high-profile casualty at the FA.

Lawyer Nic Coward, joint caretaker chief executive before Mark Palios arrived
last June and the second most senior executive at Soho Square, will leave in the
summer.

Coward, who has been at the FA for nine years, informed his office yesterday of
his departure, which he said was 'amicable' and due to restructuring by Palios
that had left him without a definitive role.

Despite Coward's undoubted ability, he has paid the price for the shambolic
early days of the Ferdinand row, when slow-moving FA bureaucracy allowed
Manchester United to gain the high ground in the dispute.

He was not helped by FA procedure which meant every legal matter went through
his office, causing a logjam of documents during the Ferdinand case and other
disciplinary matters which left players waiting months for even run-of-the-mill
hearings.

Palios is streamlining the structure, meaning legal work will go to outside law
firms rather than all ending on Coward's desk.

Coward follows Paul Barber, head of marketing and communications, Jamie Magraw,
head of finances, Michelle Castle, head of operations, and Steve Parkin, head of
the National Game, out of Soho Square.

THE international laws meeting at the FIFA summit in London later this month
will decide between the silver and golden goals rule, which is causing another
division between the world governing body and UEFA.

The European ruling organisation support the silver goal rule for their knockout
tournaments, including the Champions League and European Championships, whereby
the side leading after the first 15 minutes of extra time wins the match and, if
the game is still a draw after both periods of extra time, it is decided on
penalties.

However, FIFA's Michel Platini is campaigning for golden goals, which end games
the moment one team scores.

BOXING promoter Frank Maloney, in Portugal supporting England's football team,
may be the most unlikely candidate standing in June's London mayoral elections,
which he is fighting for the UK Independence Party.

But he still feels it worthwhile to throw away Pounds 30,000 of his own money in
his political quest.

HAPLESS FA security chief Ray Whitworth, who berated a travel agent for booking
two English journalists into the same 143-room Algarve hotel as the England
football team preparing for tonight's irrelevant friendly, should know Sir Clive
Woodward's squad coexisted in the same accommodation as the entire England rugby
media without any problems for large chunks of the World Cup and came home with
the trophy.

Swift looks for trouble

THERE may still be deep concern among senior FA officials about the number of
tickets for England games at Euro 2004 being sold over the internet.

But the governing body remain remarkably relaxed over the issue, which is low
among the priorities of top policeman David Swift, who will mastermind England's
anti-hooligan strategy in Portugal. Swift's efforts concentrate on the
possibility of trouble outside the venues, with security forces believing good
stadium management means there is little prospect of fighting inside the
grounds.

Around 50,000 England fans are expected at the tournament, with police hoping to
stop 2,500 convicted hooligans making the trip to the finals.

THE Southampton board, still keen to appoint Glenn Hoddle for a second time,
will be heartened to know that emails to St Mary's opposing his return are now
losing some ground to those backing the former Spurs boss. Sportsmail's
revelation that Hoddle was the choice to replace Gordon Strachan had caused a
huge backlash.

END

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MALONEY: AMBITION

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               15 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               February 18, 2004

Comment & Analysis: Billy Bragg is serious: Politicians have wrestled with House
of Lords reform for 100 years. Now a singer may have cracked the problem

BYLINE: Jonathan Freedland

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1147 words


You've got to hand it to Billy Bragg. Most of his peers are either playing the
Bournemouth Pavilion in an eighties nostalgia night or they're resuscitating
flatlined careers eating caterpillars in the Australian outback. But Bragg, the
troubadour of the Kinnock years, has his gaze fixed on higher things than a
reunion tour with The Human League or a dose of C-list reality TV. He still
believes a pop star can change the world - just a little bit.

For years he has been doggedly campaigning for a cause that could not be less
glamorous. He has not written a song about it because it is, by his own
admission, "dry as a bone". Yet his effort could be about to achieve what all
those earlier, more dramatic struggles - for the miners, against the bomb -
never did. He could, just for once, be on the winning side.

Bragg's cause is the reform of the House of Lords (you can see why a
three-minute pop song has so far proved elusive). Like a lot of people, he has a
scheme for what should replace the current mix of bluebloods, cronies and party
hacks - all of them unelected. Unlike a lot of people, when he pesters MPs with
his ideas, he tends to get his calls returned.

Last week came a breakthrough: an hour-long session with the cabinet minister
responsible for constitutional reform, Lord Falconer, followed by meetings with
the leader of the House of Commons, Peter Hain, and Labour party chairman, Ian
McCartney. Those close to Lord Falconer say he takes Bragg's idea very
seriously: "It's not the only game in town, but it is certainly being kicked
around." Hain has gone further, publicly floating the Bragg scheme himself. Next
week the government will publish a bill for the next stage of Lords' reform,
calling for the removal of the remaining hereditary peers and the creation of an
independent appointments commission. Expect the surrounding debate to include
some warm words about the Bragg plan.

So what is it? It's not much of a slogan and it won't have them lighting candles
or waving lighters at the next Bragg concert, but the singer wants the second
chamber filled by a secondary mandate. Simply put, seats in the second chamber
would be allocated proportionally and in line with the share of the votes cast
for the Commons at the general election. No separate election, just the same
votes counting twice.

Here's how it would work. If Labour got 43% nationally, it would get roughly 43%
of the seats in the new house. The MSCs, members of the second chamber, would be
chosen from party lists, much as they are now for PR contests in Scotland and
Wales or for the European parliament. It would not be a straightforward national
contest, but broken up into the 12 "nations and regions" of Britain, with 25
members for each one. So if the Lib Dems won, say, 50% of the total vote in the
south-west, they would get at least 12 of that region's 25 members in the
300-seat second chamber.

Bragg reckons his scheme cracks all the aged chestnuts of a debate that has
remained unresolved in British politics for almost a century. Those who insist
our constitution rests on the primacy of the Commons will be satisfied, because
choosing a government to sit in the Commons would still be the primary purpose
of each vote cast in a general election. The second chamber is merely a bonus:
buy one, get one free.

At the same time, the scheme would deliver what those who advocate
straightforward election have always wanted: democratic legitimacy. The members
would be there as a result of votes, not the whim of a prime minister or his
chums. That, says Bragg, would reconnect those turning off politics - and
refusing to turn out at the polls - with the democratic process. Right now,
those in safe seats can feel their vote is futile: "Labour/the Tories always win
here anyway." Under this system, even if the result in the local Commons
constituency were a foregone conclusion, the regional PR contest would not be.
Every vote would count much more.

It would also bring new blood into Westminster. With just a 4% threshold to
clear, the Greens, Scottish Socialists and UK Independence party could all
expect to make their debut in the UK parliament. The British National party
would probably make it, too. Bragg is not worried. "It would shine a torch into
the dirty little corner where the BNP defecate on our democracy, and that would
be much more powerful than duffing them up in the street - which I'm also in
favour of."

It's not surprising that Labour find the secondary mandate option appealing.
They have been stung by Tory charges that their sole interest in Lords' reform
is the desire to expel the hereditaries - motivated, say the Conservatives, by
the same class hatred as the ban on fox-hunting - and that they have no idea
what to do next. There are internal considerations, too. If the government once
again presented a proposal for an all-appointed house of Tony's cronies, the
Labour backbenches would be in uproar, threatening a tuition fees style revolt.
Even Blairite loyalists admit that "most people think that a chamber which
doesn't rest on some sort of election is bonkers".

The government knows it needs a credible vision of what the second half of our
law-making body looks like. Tony Blair decided as much in the autumn: three
times aides asked if he wanted to dump the question about Lords' reform from
Labour's much-mocked Big Conversation document and three times he said no. A
fortnight ago Lord Falconer laid on a slideshow for the cabinet, including a
graph that charted Lords' defeats of governments from 1962 to 2003. "It was like
spot the Labour government," says one who saw it: the graph spiked up in 1974-79
and again after 1997. "This is a revising chamber," says the source. "It just
doesn't revise Conservative governments. It only revises us." Many ministers
left convinced that the second chamber question simply has to be resolved, once
and for all.

There are flaws in the Bragg scheme. As a conviction democrat, I would prefer
full-blooded, direct election. But others hold opposite views just as strongly
and the result has been a century of paralysis. This might be one of those cases
where everyone has to give up on perfection and meet in the middle. I could live
with the Bragg scheme and so could those who make a fetish of the supremacy of
the Commons and have voted for appointment-only as a way to preserve it. It is
not poetry, but it is a compromise that could work - which is what practical
politics is all about. As the singer himself might put it, it won't change the
world, it won't bring us a new England - but it could just make for a better
Britain.

Billy Bragg will be discussing his proposal at A Democratic Lords: the Third
Stage? hosted by the Fabian Society, February 25, 7pm-9pm, Grand Committee Room,
House of Commons

j.freedland@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               16 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          February 12, 2004, Thursday

Win some, lose some

SECTION: FeaturesLetter to the Editor Pg. 25

LENGTH: 70 words

SIR - Michael Howard is making a grave mistake by reversing Iain Duncan Smith's
decision to withdraw from the federalist EPP-ED (report Feb 9). His decision
will be music to the ears of the UK Independence Party, who have been handed all
the ammunition they need to mop up many Tory supporters who are still smarting
at the removal of their elected leader by a relatively small number of MPs.

Nigel Draper

Potton, Beds

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               17 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            February 9, 2004, Monday

Eyes to the right

SECTION: Features; 27

LENGTH: 880 words


I WONDER whether Libby Purves has been anywhere near Burnley or Oldham, or has
any idea why more and more people are voting for the British National Party.

I certainly don't recognise Burnley as "racially volatile" (Comment, February
3).

On the contrary, it is a nice place where the vast majority of its citizens live
peacefully. The council is working hard to regenerate the town.

Burnley, along with many other towns in the North, has been let down by lack of
funding and investment by successive governments. Discontent is aggravated when
resources are perceived to be allocated unequally or unfairly. Older people are
not fearful or disgruntled at the modern world, as Libby says. They are
disgruntled that they have worked and paid their taxes all their lives and are
left to fend for themselves in an increasingly selfish society, where money can
be found to fight wars and for economic migrants, but not for nursing homes
(four have been closed in Burnley recently).

I don't support or vote for the BNP, but I can understand why (rightly or
wrongly) people are voting for it. The alternative parties are not listening to
the public's concerns.

Peter Green, Burnley

HOBSON'S CHOICE

READING Libby Purves's piece left me feeling dismay at how a swipe at the BNP,
an obviously soft target, could so castigate the feelings of a large proportion
of society.

I do not come from a rural community. I am from London and I have watched as my
livelihood has diminished as my customers have moved out, preferring the
tranquil existence once enjoyed in their home community but now only to be found
far from home.

The BNP is despicable, its ambitions and its motives are beneath contempt.

However, society cannot turn its back on people who subscribe to some of its
philosophy.

I am not suggesting we should all shave our heads and go and join the BNP, but
why are we not asking the broader question of why anyone votes for these thugs
at all? Marc Moore, Dagenham, Essex

BLAME GAME

LIBBY PURVES is mistaken. The only "identifiable group" that the BNP blames for
Britain's social problems is that which includes Establishment politicians.
Third World immigrants and asylum-seekers are an effect, not a cause.

Nick Cass, BNP Organiser, Kirklees, West Yorkshire

DAMAGE LIMITATION

AS USUAL in her piece on the BNP, Libby Purves is spot-on, but with one
exception.

She brushes off too lightly the damage done to race relations by political
correctness and the race relations industry. You deal with issues such as that
surrounding Robert Kilroy-Silk's recent article by argument, not by slapping on
the racist label.

So long as race issues are not properly debated the BNP will flourish. Freedom
of speech is not lightly surrendered.

Andrew Lang, Pirbright, Surrey

CULTURE WARS

I have not supported, and will not support the BNP, nor can I conceive of
circumstances in which I ever would. However, your writer goes too far in the
other direction in support of the present haste to turn this country into a
quagmire of conflicting cultures.

I believe that to import people from overseas who appear to have no intention of
abandoning their cultures in order to integrate with a benevolent host culture
is plain stupid and dangerous.

Frank Duffy, East Kilbride, Lanarkshire,

SETTING A GOOD EXAMPLE

PERHAPS Libby Purves could better refer to Oldham as a good example of how
decent people use the ballot box. There are no BNP representatives on Oldham
council and there never have been. There have been, however, a number of Asian
representatives and, recently, an Asian mayor.

Disaffection with voting is more a matter of having faith in our political
representatives, many of whom do not present good examples.

J. D. McKeown, Oldham

DON'T IGNORE US

IF YOU really want to stop the BNP, why doesn't Libby Purves even mention its
natural rival, and the chief target of its machinations, the UK Independence
Party?

The UKIP is ten times the size of the BNP. How can the press consistently ignore
us, while effectively advertising our intentionally malodorous competitors,
unless it is complicit in the process of suppressing us and, within safe limits,
promoting them?

Steve Reed, UKIP, Wells and Weston-super-Mare

DEMOCRATIC DEFICIT

LIBBY PURVES is spot-on. We can point to the largely shared culture of the
Carribean and some African countries; many from the Asian sub-continent also
share our love of cricket and fair play.

Our democracy is currently threatened not only by myths perpetrated by right
wing parties: the democratic deficit can also be seen in the way so many of our
laws are not the responsibility of the Parliament which we elect -but come from
a Commission in Brussels that we do not.

Fortunately the "BNP wolf" will be challenged in June by other parties
advocating withdrawal from the EU we never joined. One of these already has
three MEPs. It is inclusive and difficult to brand as fascist.

Robert Gutfreund-Walmsley, Manchester

THE FREEDOM TO BE WRONG

THE trouble with democracy is that people will persist in voting for the wrong
party. But they have to have that choice -otherwise it is not democratic.

Julian Fall, Whiteparish, Wiltshire


LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                               18 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            February 8, 2004, Sunday

INSIDE LINES: SNUBBED MALONEY SET FOR POLITICAL PUNCH-UP

BYLINE: ALAN HUBBARD

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 296 words


As Lennox Lewis announces his retirement as world heavyweight champion his
former manager, Frank Maloney, pointedly snubbed in that valedictory speech, is
preparing to climb into the political ring, taking on Ken Livingstone for the
title of mayor of London. It is a fight he knows he cannot win, but he promises
it will go the distance and reckons the man back in the red corner will end up
with at least a bloody nose. "Look," says the pint- sized ex-publican from
Peckham. "I done the impossible with Lennox when he became the undisputed
champion. I took on Don King and won - and he's a real monster - so Ken
Livingstone don't faze me." The Union Jack suit in which Maloney did his Little
and Large act with Lewis in the days before their estrangement has been sponged
and pressed, ready for the hustings and the election platform on 4 June. He is
running on behalf of the United Kingdom Independence Party, comprised largely of
disaffected Tories (though Maloney claims he is personally to left of New
Labour) who are vehemently anti- Europe and last week launched his campaign with
a soiree at his substantial home in Chislehurst, Kent. Remembering his roots
deep in Del Boy territory, he is currently on the look-out for a yellow Reliant
Robin to use as his battle bus which will carry one of his manifesto slogans:
"Sod the criminals, help the victims." Maloney's ticket also embraces ending the
selling-off of playing fields and support for the London Olympic bid - providing
the whole nation pays for the Games. "I'm losing money by doing politics because
I'm neglecting my boxing business but if I don't finish in the top four I'll
leave London and go and live in Australia. Honest." Get ready to duck, Ken.

Lewis heading for Harrison's corner, page 14

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                               19 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                February 3, 2004

They call themselves the voice of the driver. But who do they really represent:
Association opposed to speed cameras is cagey on membership and has political
ties

BYLINE: Andrew Clark, Transport correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1249 words


It claims to be the "voice of the driver" which represents a ground-swell of
opinion among Britain's motorists. But the leading organisation campaigning
against speed cameras is dominated by a small core of libertarians and has
routinely allowed its membership numbers to be exaggerated.

In media interviews over recent months, the Association of British Drivers (ABD)
has suggested it has as many as 9,000 members. But a Guardian investigation has
established that its true number of paying subscribers is far fewer.

The association, known to critics as the "provisional wing" of motoring
organisations such as the RAC and AA, maintains it has tapped into mass
discontent about the government's treatment of motorists.

Although it claims to be a single-issue group, it has connections with
politically motivated campaigns opposing Britain's membership of the EU and
backing field sports. Its named affiliate organisations include a controversial
forum where death threats were made against a leading road safety campaigner.

The ABD's spokesmen have made more than 50 appearances in the media over the
past three months, saying they speak on behalf of motorists in opposing speed
traps, traffic calming measures and road charging. To date, they have been
reluctant to clarify the extent of their following.

In newspaper interviews the ABD has cited membership numbers varying from 2,000
to 9,000. According to its website, the association charges an annual fee of
£20, claiming: "The government extorts more than this amount from you in fuel
tax every time you fill your tank."

But the ABD's latest filing at Companies House, under its incorporated name
Pro-Motor, reveals that it had £14,700 in the bank last year and little more
than £9,000 the year before, which suggests that its true paying membership may
be much lower.

ABD's chairman, Brian Gregory, initially told the Guardian that the association
had 9,000 members. But when challenged, the ABD lowered its claim to 2,256
paying subscribers and 3,775 "affiliate" members who it said were automatically
included by virtue of their membership of eight connected associations.

Links denied

Several of the so-called affiliate organisations denied that their members had
any link to the ABD. The Renault Clio Owners' Club, which numbers 1,000 people,
said it did not consider that its members could be counted by the ABD. The Fiat
Motor Club, which also has 1,000 members, insisted it had "no official link to
the ABD".

Peter Jones, chairman of the Fiat Motor Club, said the club had once paid a £20
fee to receive the ABD's magazine but had no close connection: "This is well out
of order. Some of our members would probably take exception to being counted as
members of something they've never heard of and probably don't agree with."

When challenged about the discrepancy, Mr Gregory said he did not consider the
size of the ABD's following to be important: "It doesn't matter a fig to me
whether we've got 1,500 members or 5,000 members."

He said the ABD's bank balance was low because it had increased membership fees
but had not asked those members paying by direct debit to pay more: "What's
important is that if you go into any pub and listen to the views of the people
at the bar, you'll find that their opinions are very much in line with ours."

The ABD says it does not condone law-breaking. Its widely quoted opinions
include opposition to London's congestion charge, the M6 toll road and speed
cameras in revenue-raising positions. But its lesser known policies include the
abolition of speed limits on motorways. An affiliate organisation insists that
seatbelts kill more motorists than they save by trapping them in cars when they
plunge into lakes and rivers.

The ABD also disputes the existence of global warming and claims that if it does
exist, it is not caused by human activity. One ABD director, Bernard Abrams, is
a scientist who has claimed that the Earth is getting cooler, rather than
warmer. Similar views are cited as official ABD policy in the association's
literature to deny the environmental impact of exhaust pipes.

The association's website includes links to an organisation supporting shooting
enthusiasts, who are described as "another group of law-abiding people who are
being battered by excessive regulations and interfering do-gooders".

Among its associate organisations the ABD numbers Pistonheads, a website which
carried death threats last year against Mary Williams, the head of road safety
charity Brake, whose mother and former partner were killed in traffic accidents.
Members of Pistonheads suggested that Mrs Williams should be "knocked off" or
have her brake cables cut for supporting the proliferation of speed cameras.
Other postings said she should be burnt at the stake as a witch.

Mr Gregory said the death threats were "regrettable" but criticised Brake for
highlighting them: "It was a clear attempt to move the discussion away from a
serious discussion of whether to use speed cameras to raise money from
motorists."

Regional organisers of the ABD include Tony Vickers, who was involved in the
fuel protests of 2000. The association has also thrown its weight behind Idris
Francis, a leading figure in the UK Independence party, who is attempting to sue
the government on human rights grounds for forcing him to disclose whether he
was the driver of a vehicle caught on camera breaking the speed limit.

Although the ABD claims to be a lobbying organisation, a spokesman for the
Department for Transport said the association had never had any contact with
ministers. It is, however, a member of the parliamentary advisory council on
transport safety. The council's executive director, Rob Gifford, said the ABD
typically objected to many of his initiatives: "They are basically libertarians.
They turn up at our meetings and make a nuisance of themselves."

Literature produced by the ABD claims that safety campaigners lie by alleging
that a third of all accidents are caused by speed. It says the true figure
established by the government's transport research laboratory is 7%. Safety
campaigners say this is wilful misrepresentation. They merely regard speed as a
"contributory factor" rather than the sole cause of a third of all accidents.

Another affiliate organisation whose subscribers are counted in the ABD's
membership is SafeSpeed, a body set up by a Scottish engineer, Paul Smith, who
is regarded as such a nuisance by law enforcement authorities that one police
chief sent out a memo advising staff not to reply to his constant bombardment of
letters.

Mr Smith has attracted adverse comment by using a black SS logo on a red
background to promote SafeSpeed. He told the Times recently that death threats
against Mrs Williams constituted "a mild reaction" to her "dangerous" ideas.

Captain Gatso, a self-styled motoring terrorist who blows up speed cameras, said
he knew the ABD's leaders well, although they have publicly distanced themselves
from his law breaking.

The ABD insisted it was unworried by scrutiny of its members and affiliations.
According to its own figures, the ABD's membership accounts for only 0.007% of
Britain's 31.7 million drivers. But Mr Gregory said its support had rocketed in
recent months amid growing concern about speed cameras: "Motorists are pig sick
of this wurlitzer which is being camouflaged as a safety exercise."

guardian.co.uk/transport


LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               20 of 20 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            February 2, 2004, Monday

LEADING ARTICLE: GIMMICKS ALONE WILL NOT BRING VOTERS TO TURN OUT FOR EUROPE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 352 words


THE WRINGING of hands; the technological fix; and the instinct for forcing
people to do what is best for them. Three wrong responses to the dire finding
that turnout in Britain in this year's European Parliament elections may fall
below 18 per cent.

A survey for the Parliament finds that only 18 per cent of this country's
electorate say they are certain to vote on 10 June. This is depressing, not
least because at the last elections in 1999 fewer people went to the polls (24
per cent, less than half the EU average) than told pollsters they were "certain"
to do so.

It is no use, however, simply bemoaning voter apathy, or blaming politicians
generally for undermining trust in democratic institutions. Nor will any of the
Government's experiments with electronic, postal or weekend voting, worthy
though they are, suddenly transform us into a nation of active and engaged
European citizens. And the one supposed solution that is often embraced by the
intellectually lazy or authoritarian, compulsory voting, is equally off the
point. If people do not want to vote, it is at odds with one of the fundamental
principles of democracy, namely the right not to do things, to require them to
do so.

There is no easy solution to the problem of low turnout, except to change the
widespread perceptions (a) that the European Parliament does not matter and (b)
that voting for it is unlikely to make much practical difference. These are
matters that belong in the realm of politics rather than that of systems,
although proportional representation, even of our unsatisfactory variety, does
at least make it possible to change the second perception.

Above all, however, it is up to parties, candidates and concerned citizens to
give the voters something worth turning out for. There is a vacuum here, and an
opportunity. If only the Green party could mobilise the kind of campaign it ran
in these elections in 1989. Indeed, it is almost worth hoping the UK
Independence Party can get its act together, to force the conventional parties
to make the case for Europe with passion and conviction.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd
